eng	nds	You mustn't go. 	Du dröffst nich gohn. 
eng	nds	Maria doesn't speak German. 	Maria sprickt keen Diutsch. 
eng	nds	If I see Tom, I’ll tell him you were looking for him. 	Wenn ik Tom seh, segg ik em, dat ji em söcht hebbt. 
eng	nds	Many people start their day with a cup of coffee. 	Veel fangt den Dag mit en Köppen Kaffee an. 
eng	nds	Did Tom help Mary? 	Hett Tom Ria holpen? 
eng	nds	He wants me to drive to Boston with her. 	He will, dat ik mit ehr na Boston föhr. 
eng	nds	I have a friend who lives in Spain. 	Ik heff en Fründ, de in Spanien wahnt. 
eng	nds	Do you know when Tom died? 	Weetst du, wannehr Tom starven is? 
eng	nds	Who's got a key to this flat? 	’keen hett allens en Wahnungsslötel? 
eng	nds	I'm not afraid to say what I think. 	Ik bün nich bang to seggen, wat ik denk. 
eng	nds	They've always been like that. 	De sünd al jümmer so wäsen. 
eng	nds	Have I got to change for Paris? 	Mütt ik na Paris ümstiegen? 
eng	nds	He doesn't want to say anything. 	He will nix seggen. 
eng	nds	Peter is the bigger of the two boys. 	Peter is de gröttere vun de beiden Jungs. 
eng	nds	I have already been married to Ria for four years. 	Ik bün al veer Johr mit Ria verheirodt. 
eng	nds	Did you go to a football match when you were in England? 	Büst du mol to en Footballspeel wäsen, as du in Ingland wast? 
eng	nds	He says that I should go to Boston with her. 	He seggt, ik schall mit ehr na Boston föhren. 
eng	nds	I spent all day at home today. 	Ik heff hiut den ganzen Dag tohuus verbröcht. 
eng	nds	Tatoeba is not a dictionary. 	Tatoeba is keen Wöörbook. 
eng	nds	Do I need to change for Paris? 	Mütt ik na Paris ümstiegen? 
eng	nds	This is written in English. 	Dat is up Engelsch schreven. 
eng	nds	We haven't changed anything yet. 	Wi hebbt noch nix ännert. 
eng	nds	If I see Tom, I’ll tell him you were looking for him. 	Wenn ik Tom seh, segg ik em, dat du em söcht hest. 
eng	nds	If you don't like it here, you don't need to stay. 	Wenn di dat hier nich gefallt, bruukst du nich to blieven. 
eng	nds	Why can't you swim here? 	Worüm dröff man hier nich swemmen? 
eng	nds	We're learning how to write. 	Wi lehrt schrieven. 
eng	nds	Tatoeba isn't a dictionary. 	Tatoeba is keen Wöörbook. 
eng	nds	Do I need to change trains for Paris? 	Mütt ik na Paris ümstiegen? 
eng	nds	I already told Tom what I want to buy. 	Ik heff Tom al seggt, wat ik köpen will. 
eng	nds	The sea is cold. 	Dat Meer is koolt. 
eng	nds	They know Kabyle. 	De künnt Kabylsch. 
eng	nds	I have a friend who lives in Spain. 	Ik heff en Fründin, de in Spanien wahnt. 
eng	nds	Unfortunately, I can't help you, but I have a suggestion. 	Ik di nich helpen, dat deit mi leed, man ik heff en Vörslag. 
eng	nds	If I see Tom, I’ll tell him you were looking for him. 	Wenn ik Tom seh, segg ik em, dat Se em söcht hebbt. 
eng	nds	That is for you. 	Dat is för di! 
eng	nds	I'm not sure we have enough time. 	Ik bün mi nich säker, of wi noog Tiet hebbt. 
eng	nds	Why can't you swim here? 	Worüm is dat nich tolaten, hier to swemmen? 
eng	nds	How many lawyers do you think there are in Boston? 	Wat gläuvst du, woveel Afkoten dat in Boston gifft? 
eng	nds	I sent her a letter. 	Ik heff ehr en Breef schickt. 
eng	nds	She's three years older than him. 	Se is dree Johr öller as he. 
eng	nds	Maria does not speak German. 	Maria sprickt keen Diutsch. 
eng	nds	Who seeks shall find the wise said. 	„’keen söcht, de schall finnen“, sä de Wiese. 
eng	nds	I feel sorry for Tom, but not for Mary. 	Tom deit mi leed, man nich Ria. 
eng	nds	My brother has announced that he's getting married at last, which is very good news. 	Mien Broer hett ankünnigt, dat he endlich heirodt, wat en heel gode Noricht is. 
eng	nds	I spent my money on clothes, food and books. 	Ik heff mien Geld för Kleder, Äten un Beuker utgäven. 
eng	nds	I've been married to Mary for four years. 	Ik bün al veer Johr mit Ria verheirodt. 
eng	nds	They have a basket full of apples. 	De hebbt en Korf vull mit Appeln. 
eng	nds	I just got back yesterday. 	Ik bün ierst gistern torüchkomen. 
eng	nds	They're looking for volunteers. 	De seukt Friewillige. 
eng	nds	He says that I should drive to Boston with her. 	He seggt, ik schall mit ehr na Boston föhren. 
eng	nds	I have rewritten this sentence. 	Ik heff düssen Satz ümschreven. 
eng	nds	Do I have to change trains for Paris? 	Mütt ik na Paris ümstiegen? 
eng	nds	You mustn't go. 	Ji dröfft nich gohn. 
eng	nds	You mustn't go. 	Se dröfft nich gohn. 
eng	nds	We're at the museum. 	Wi sünd in’t Museum. 
eng	nds	Today I won't be going to church. 	Hiut goh ik nich na Kerk. 
eng	nds	I'm not saying this just because you're my sister. 	Ik segg dat nich blot, wiel du mien Süster büst. 
eng	nds	Has he always been like that? 	Was he al jümmer so? 
