eng	rom	I know that they think I'm stupid. 	Žanav kaj gindin kaj som prosto. 
eng	rom	The Internet is really big. 	O interneto si but baro. 
eng	rom	I'm too awesome for this world. 	Me som pŕabut lašo anda kadi lumja. 
eng	rom	He's writing a poem with his sister. 	Vo xramosarel jekh poezija peski pheasa. 
eng	rom	The priest is in the chapel. 	O rašaj si ani kapela. 
eng	rom	That is too much for one. 	Si pŕabut anda jekh ženo. 
eng	rom	What Tom did is really disgusting. 	So kerdas o Tom but grjaca lo. 
eng	rom	Algeria is an important country. 	İ Alžerija si jekh importantno them. 
eng	rom	This book is about Algeria. 	Kadi kniga si pa i Alžerija. 
eng	rom	Find out where Tom went. 	Arakh kaj gilo o Tom. 
eng	rom	He loves tea. 	Vo kamel o čajo. 
eng	rom	Tom crushed all the eggs. 	O Tom ičardas sa l anře. 
eng	rom	You're going there without me. 	Žas tar othe bi mango. 
eng	rom	They speak English in the United States. 	Den duma englišitska ande Phandle Staturya la Amerikiyake. 
eng	rom	This book is about Algeria. 	Kadi kliška si pa i Alžerija. 
eng	rom	Tom loves to go hunting. 	O Tom drago leske te žal te lovil. 
eng	rom	Fake news is a huge problem in Algeria as well. 	Le xoxavde nevimata si jekh baro problemo vi an e Alžerija. 
eng	rom	No one loves Trump. 	Khonik či Kamel o Trump. 
eng	rom	Tom didn't want to watch the movie. 	Či kamlas o Tom te dikhel o filmo. 
eng	rom	I'm fluent in English. 	Me dav duma mišto englišicka. 
eng	rom	Algeria has finished the project. 	Alžerija getosardas o projekto. 
eng	rom	They speak English in the United States. 	Den duma englišitska ani Amerika. 
eng	rom	You're too young to see this movie. 	San pŕabut têrno te dikhes kadi filmo. 
eng	rom	Go quickly! 	Ža sigo! 
eng	rom	Tom only came to bother us. 	Avilo o Tom numaj te dirol amen. 
eng	rom	Algeria is not a "new country." 	İ Alžerija naj jekh "nevo them". 
eng	rom	We asked Tom to do that. 	Pušlam le Tomestar te kerel les. 
eng	rom	France left Algeria in 1962. 	O Frantsuzo meklas i Alžerija ando bêrš 1962. 
eng	rom	I think that the future is bright for Algeria. 	Me gindiv ke o anglipe si pherdo lumina anda i Alžerija. 
eng	rom	We are against Tom working with us. 	Či kamas kaj o Tom kerel buči amensa. 
eng	rom	She loves tea. 	Voj kamel o čajo. 
eng	rom	Algeria has lots of international friends. 	Alžerija si les but internatsionalne amala. 
eng	rom	This computer is old. 	O kompjuteri purano lo. 
eng	rom	There's no reason to live. 	Naj motivo te trail. 
eng	rom	Algeria and Cuba are friends. 	Alžerija haj Kuba si amala. 
