eng	srn	You must obey your mother when she is talking to you. 	Yu mus arki yu m'ma te a e taki nanga yu. 
eng	srn	Because the foundation was not made right, the house leans to one side. 	Fu di a fundamenti no meki bun, meki a oso e anga go na wan sei. 
eng	srn	Don’t bring your anger here. 	No tyari yu atibron kon dya. 
eng	srn	Milka hung the clothes up outside to dry in the sun. 	Milka anga den krosi na doro meki den kan drei ini a son. 
eng	srn	Today I didn’t cook a lot of rice, just a handful or so. 	Tide mi no bori furu aleisi, kande wan anu so. 
eng	srn	The man cheated me out of that money. 	A man anga mi nanga a moni. 
eng	srn	When I heard what my son did, it broke my heart. 	Di mi yere san a boi fu mi du, a broko mi ati. 
eng	srn	Give me a bunch of bananas. 	Gi mi wan anu bakba. 
eng	srn	I don’t have the heart to kill someone. 	Mi no abi ati fu kiri wan sma. 
eng	srn	They hurt me. 	A e hati mi. 
eng	srn	I went to bed on an empty stomach because there wasn’t any bread. 	Mi go sribi nanga angribere bika brede no ben de. 
eng	srn	You act as if you’re listening, but you can’t tell me anything about what the speaker said. 	Yu e plei bigi arkiman, ma yu no man taigi mi notnoti fu san a boskopuman taki dape. 
eng	srn	Even if I don’t arrive on time, you must keep waiting. 	Awinsi mi no doro ete, un mu tan wakti mi. 
eng	srn	I warned you, but you wouldn’t listen. 	Mi ben bari yu, ma yu no arki mi. 
eng	srn	The woman holds a grudge against her husband because he cheated on her. 	A frow hori en masra na ati fu di a waka gi en. 
eng	srn	My bananas are delicious; they don’t have hard spots. 	Den bakba fu mi switi, den no abi ati. 
eng	srn	The desire is gone. 	A angri gwe. 
eng	srn	I’m not going to tell the girl that. 	Mi no e go taigi a meisje dati. 
eng	srn	I’m longing to see you. 	Mi e angri fu si yu. 
eng	srn	Why do I feel so listless today? 	Fa mi skin firi so anga-anga tide? 
eng	srn	You know what a sharp tongue she has! 	I sabi fa en mofo asranti! 
eng	srn	When the soldiers saw their captain fall, they lost heart. 	Di den srudati si den kapten fadon, den lasi ati. 
eng	srn	Some people cannot forgive the soldiers for the painful things they did to people. 	Son sma no man gi den srudati pardon fu den hat' sani san den ben du den sma. 
eng	srn	Every time my daughter goes out with the motorbike, I am nervous. 	Ala leisi te mi umapikin e go na strati nanga brom, mi ati de na dyompo. 
eng	srn	When the girl got tired, she leaned on her mother’s lap. 	Di a pikin kon weri, a anga tapu en mama bowtu. 
eng	srn	The mother lost heart when she saw that the child didn’t return to town. 	A mama las' ati di a si taki a pikin no e kon na foto. 
eng	srn	Now that I’ve gotten my diploma, my heart is at ease. 	Now di mi kisi a skoropapira, mi ati sidon. 
eng	srn	Don’t forget to anchor the boat before you come ashore. 	No fergiti fu ankra a boto fosi yu kon na syoro. 
eng	srn	Calm down first. 	Kowru yu ati fosi. 
eng	srn	That girl likes to hang around rich people. 	A pikin dati lobi anga na gudu sma. 
eng	srn	I don’t want to buy the bicycle anymore. 	Mi no wani bai a baisigri moro. 
eng	srn	My mother sent me to a Moravian school because my father is a Moravian. 	Mi mama ben seni mi go na wan Anitri skoro bika mi papa na wan Anitri. 
eng	srn	There is famine in the country. 	Angri de ini a kondre. 
eng	srn	I don’t like it when clothes are hung up here and there in the room. 	Mi no lobi te krosi e anga-anga ini a kamra. 
eng	srn	In the early days, people liked to brush their teeth with ash. 	Fosten den sma ben lobi wasi den mofo nanga asisi. 
eng	srn	Could it be that I have a touch of the flu? 	Luku bun wan griep e freiri mi? 
eng	srn	Wait for me at eight o’clock. 	Un wakti mi aiti yuru. 
eng	srn	This man is as big as an elephant. 	A man disi bigi leki asaw. 
eng	srn	After the mother yelled at the boy, he took out his anger on the dog. 	Baka di a m'ma bari a boi, a boi puru en atibron tapu a dagu. 
eng	srn	When I heard that the soldiers had returned power to the civilians, I was satisfied. 	Di mi yere tak' den srudati go baka na kampu, a go na mi ati. 
eng	srn	The week before emancipation day the women love to wear a headdress. 	A wiki fu maspasi den umasma lobi weri anyisa. 
eng	srn	If you see this boy of mine hanging on me like this, then he is not feeling well. 	Te yu si a boi disi fu mi e anga-anga so na mi skin, dan a no firi switi. 
eng	srn	I’m sorry that I hit the child. 	A e hati mi fa mi naki a pikin. 
eng	srn	Every evening I listen to the news on the radio. 	Ala neti mi e arki nyunsu na radio. 
