eng	kab	You are wicked. 	Diri-k 
eng	kab	Expect her to get the sack for always being late to work. 	Qaṛeɛ kan ad as-d-mlen abrid imi tezga d aɛeṭṭel ar uxeddim. 
eng	kab	Tom met me on the beach. 	Yemlal-iyi-d Tom deg lebḥeṛ. 
eng	kab	You think about him. 	Tettxemmimeḍ fell-as. 
eng	kab	Who dare say to the lion: "Your mouth smells bad"? 	Wi ara s-yinin i yizem ittraḥ yimi-k? 
eng	kab	Do not be too bad, or you will be hated, nor too good, or you will be eaten. 	Ur ţţirẓig ad k-kerhen; ur ţţiẓid, ad k-ččen. 
eng	kab	He promises the moon. 	Yttṛeggim ayen umi ur yezmir. 
eng	kab	Come what will! 	Γli-d ay adrar fell-i! 
eng	kab	I'm just telling that. 	Nniɣ-d akka, ur d-nniɣ. 
eng	kab	I am connected to the United States, via a web VPN. So Russians can know everything I write. Wow! 	Aql-i kkuniktiɣ ar Marikan, s yiwen uẓeṭṭa vpn. Ihi tura, iRusiyen ad ẓren kra n wayen ţaruɣ. Aww! 
eng	kab	Politicians can't be trusted. 	Isertiyen ur ţwamnen. 
eng	kab	If ploughing was a matter of gazing, anybody will thresh wheat. 	Lemmer tayerza s wallen, win tufiḍ ad yesserwet. 
eng	kab	This child is distraught and may lose his mind. 	Aqcic-a yuǧew, werɛad kan yedderwec! 
eng	kab	Tom wasn't my first choice. 	Tom ur yelli d afran-iw amenzu. 
eng	kab	He could no longer see the sun. 	Ur yuɣal ara akw ad iwali iṭij. 
eng	kab	Ah, that's why the lame ducks are jealous. 	Ziɣ daymi i usmen deg-wen, agad ur nesɛi ifassen! 
eng	kab	Mountain water is good for the health. 	Aman n udrar lhan i tdawsa. 
eng	kab	We see each other every other day. 	Nettmeẓṛa yal sin wussan. 
eng	kab	The world is a people. 	Amaḍal d taddart. 
eng	kab	Well, in Kabyle, I am not strong. It's more in French that I prefer to indulge in puns, a little in English too. 	Ihi, s teqbaylit, ur twileɣ ara. S tefṛansist, i ḥemmleɣ turarin s wawalen, ciṭ diɣ s tneglizit. 
eng	kab	This is where the shoe pinches! 	Ha-t-an anda tuḍen icc-is! 
eng	kab	I'm connected to the USA, via a VPN web. The Russians may therefore know all what I'm writing. Wow! 	Aql-i kkuniktiɣ ar Marikan, s yiwen uẓeṭṭa vpn. Ihi tura, iRusiyen ad ẓren kra n wayen ţaruɣ. Aww! 
eng	kab	I fell in love with a girl from Boston. 	Ԑecqeɣ deg yiwet n teqcict n Boston. 
eng	kab	It is the light of darkness that will dazzle us, we who look at blindness as white as a black lamb. 	D tafat n tillas ar aɣ-yestullsen, nekkni s wigi yeţwalin tidderɣelt d tamallalt am yizimer berriken. 
eng	kab	You all are very sick. 	Tuḍnem nezzeh. 
eng	kab	Once you have done what I said, you will understand better. 	Ar d ad tgeḍ acu d-nniɣ, ad tegziḍ mliḥ. 
eng	kab	"What is that weakling that you put on the picture" replied Ssinistri? 	"Dacu-t ubeɛṭeẓẓiw-agi n tewlaft i as-d-terriḍ?" i as-d-yerra dɣa Ssinistri? 
eng	kab	He eats propolis near the hearth where an incandescent fire is burning. 	Iteţ ibeqqis, tama n yilmes ideg teddegdig tmes. 
eng	kab	Even if we do not immediately succeed in leading the Kabyle to its peak, others will succeed. 	Xas ma werɛad nessaweḍ taqbaylit sani tuklal, dulaqṛaṛ ad ilin wid ara yawḍen. 
eng	kab	The other said to him: "You're fake news", in so-called English. And he became president. 	Yenna-yas winna: "You're fake news", wazun d taneglizit. Dɣa, yuɣal d aselway. 
eng	kab	The sun's up, but it's cloudy. 	Iṭij yuli-d, maca d asigna. 
eng	kab	There is no strand that goes with the other 	Tingeḍt ur teddi d ultmas. 
eng	kab	The cat churns while I milk. 	Ţeẓgeɣ, yessenduy umcic! 
eng	kab	I asked a crooked person to fetch me a sickle; he brought me back some wind. 	Ceggɛeɣ amger, yebbwi-d gma-s. 
eng	kab	Here I am, where you are. 	Aql-i usiɣ-n. 
eng	kab	Everyone seems to be in a bad mood. 	Ttbinen-d akk yettwaɣ-asen lxaṭer. 
eng	kab	How much more time will you need? 	Acḥal n lweqt n zzyada ara tiḥwiǧem? 
eng	kab	Azure blue, green, yellow, let's add the red aza, here is the Amazigh flag! 	Azerwal azulay, azegzaw, awraɣ, rnu-yas aẓa azeggaɣ, ha-t-an wennay amaziɣ! 
eng	kab	The person sitting next to me started talking to me. 	Amdan-nni yeqqimen ar tama-w yebda iheddeṛ-iyi-d. 
eng	kab	You don't know if you want it. 	Tebɣam-ţ, ur ţ-tebɣim. 
eng	kab	I set a collared trap. 	Udiɣ taxeffeţ. 
eng	kab	I don't believe it for a minute! 	Ur walaɣ! 
eng	kab	She came, the Phoenician from Bona; and she sowed discord among the brothers. 	Tusa-d tefniqt tabunit, tesker ṭrad gar watmaten. 
eng	kab	Tom went over to where Mary was sitting and gave her the envelope that John had given him to give her. 	Tom iruḥ ɣer wanda teqqim Mary, yefka-yas taɣlaft i s-d-yefka John akken ad s-tt-yefk i nettat. 
eng	kab	In his song "People", Matoub (may he rest in peace) said: "Many people expected to have food and shelter from those they considered loved ones, but ended their night outside." 	Deg taɣect-is "Imdanen", yenna-d Maɛṭub (iɣsan-is di talwit): "Acḥal n wid i yţeklen ad ččen ad gnen ɣer wid ɣallen ḥemmlen-ten, d azṛu ssumten di baṛṛa." 
eng	kab	I climbed over the fence to escape. 	Negzeɣ d ɣef frag rewleɣ d. 
eng	kab	He takes it upon himself. 	Yerra ɣef yiri-s. 
eng	kab	I was removing fleas from a dog when it rushed at me... So I woke up. 	Lliɣ ţekkseɣ isellufen i waydi, immeɣ-d fell-i... Dɣa ukiɣ-d. 
eng	kab	He sprained his foot. 	Infelwa uḍaṛ-is. 
eng	kab	Did you study hard? 	Tefkamt-as ddḥis i leqṛaya? 
eng	kab	You never let the drum relax. 	Werǧin teǧǧiḍ ṭbel ad yellexs. 
eng	kab	This is how it will happen. The lock will close. 	Akkenni ara teḍru. Aɣ d-rren diɣ aṣedṛu. 
eng	kab	Tom sat down at my table. 	Tom yeqqim-d ɣer ṭṭabla. 
eng	kab	However high we can fly, we end up going down again. 	Nnig waffug d tarusi. 
eng	kab	He rounded the corners. 	Yerra alim gar yiqbucen. 
eng	kab	You'll soon see me getting to where you are. 	Aql-iyi-n ad n-aseɣ. 
eng	kab	A horse is very useful. 	Infeɛ aṭas uɛewdiw. 
eng	kab	Intelligence is a gift; rare are the beneficiaries. 	Lefhama, am ţrika; qlil umi i ţ-yefka. 
eng	kab	We must not beat the milk hand-milked by others. 	Ulamek ara nessenduy ayefki ur d-neẓẓig. 
eng	kab	The day I reach out to you, don't prepare your elbow. 	Asmi ara k-fkeɣ afus-iw, ɣur-k ad d-mekkneḍ tiɣmert-ik. 
eng	kab	You keep making mistakes, of course you could be punished. 	Tezgiḍ tɣelṭeḍ, iban ad tzemreḍ ad tettwaḥasfeḍ. 
eng	kab	Nobody has innate knowledge. 	Ulac win yessnen kullec. 
eng	kab	Hitler came to power via a democratic process. 	Yewweḍ Hitler ar tbaḍit s ukala n tugdut. 
eng	kab	This is the only way to go. We should stop dithering. 	D wagi i d iswi. Ulac akkin neɣ akkad! 
eng	kab	He is a decison maker, solution oriented. 	Ad tt-yzellu, ad tt-yferru. 
eng	kab	A word is like a bullet. 	Awal am terṣaṣt. 
eng	kab	Expect her to get the sack, since she is often late for work. 	Qaṛeɛ kan ad as-d-mlen abrid imi tezga d aɛeṭṭel ar uxeddim. 
eng	kab	He who sleeps until noon, then starts to run. 	Yeṭṭes ar azal, imir yeţţazzal. 
eng	kab	Would this be possible? 	Ad yili dɣa waya? 
eng	kab	My eyes aren't gray. 	Ur llint wallen-iw d tiɣiɣdin. 
eng	kab	How did the true fighters manage to allow themselves to be skinned by hyenas in 62'? 	Amek armi d imi iqbayliyen ǧǧan iffisen kksen-asen timmunent i ssarmen ḥellan-ţ-id di 62'? 
eng	kab	O tongue made of flesh, why do you pour out so much poison? 	Ay iles yellan d aksum, dacu k-yerran d asennan? 
eng	kab	Kateb Yacine is our idol because he is one of the few, on the other side of the wall, to have claimed his full and entire millennial Algerian identity. Others have strayed into an untraceable Arabness that they confuse with Islam, which is itself multiple. His entire work and his masterpiece Nedjma are there to remind us. 	Kateb Yassin, d amsemmud nneɣ seg imezwura, imi deg tama-inna-akkin, ala neţţa i d-yessutren tamagit-ines tamaziɣt. Wiyiḍ akw iɛreq-asen ubrid, ǧǧan nnun ɣef yiran-nsen, ḥettmen-t ula fell-aneɣ, mekknen-aɣ d asfel i taɛṛabt akked tinselmawit. Neţţa, ula d ayen d-iǧǧa deg tira-ines akked d iwenniten-is, ulac win ur iqenneɛ ara. 
eng	kab	This sentence kills fascists. 	Tafyirt-ad tneɣ ifacisten. 
eng	kab	I'll get you some milk. 	Ad am-d-nadiɣ ayefki. 
eng	kab	This is the only way to go. There's no wriggling out of it. 	D wagi i d iswi. Ulac akkin neɣ akkad! 
eng	kab	Some people squabbled, even came to blows, for trifles that do not even belong to them. 	Nnuɣen medden, msersen, ɣef ayen ur ţalasen. 
eng	kab	The die is cast! 	Γli-d ay adrar fell-i! 
eng	kab	Try to call Tom again. 	Ɛawed siwel i Tom. 
eng	kab	Here he goes again and again to go nibble something! 	Ha-t-an, iṛuḥ diɣ ad yesniger ar tiremt-nni! 
eng	kab	Our mountains have been trying to tell history to dusty towns for a long time, my friend. 	Ay ameddakel, acḥal-aya seg asmi idurar-nneɣ mullen deg ḥekku n umezruy i temdinin-a yeɣɣubbren. 
eng	kab	Tatoeba is slow today. 	Ẓẓayet Tatoeba ass-a. 
eng	kab	Tell her what to do. 	Ini-as acu ara teg. 
eng	kab	Who's cooking dinner tonight? 	Anwa ara d-iniwlen imensi iḍ-a? 
eng	kab	I don't think so! 	Ur iyi-d-yenni wul-iw! 
eng	kab	"My chest is about to burst!" "Me too, my lungs are full..." 	"Idmaren-iw demmken!" "Ula d nekk akken, Ha-t-anad ččuṛen..." 
eng	kab	The wind tore the ridge tile from me. 😱 	Yufeg-iyi uqermud-nni n tqacuct. 😱 
eng	kab	Lone lions, alas, always end up being hunted and haggard. How did the Kabyles manage to allow themselves to be despoiled by the hyenas in 62'? 	Izmawen, a ssiɛqa, mara teddun weḥd-sen, ţuɣalen d ixewwafen yeţţuqaqren. Amek armi d imi iqbayliyen ǧǧan iffisen kksen-asen timmunent i ssarmen ḥellan-ţ-id di 62'? 
eng	kab	Tom won't stay with you. 	Tom ur ittɣimi ara yid-wen. 
eng	kab	How's Tom's foot? 	Amek i yella uḍaṛ n Tom? 
eng	kab	The poor kid felt the blow he was given. 	Yeḥlales ugrud-nni, segmi t-teqṛeḥ tyita. 
eng	kab	Ah, if you only knew what I dreamed of! Thank goodness I got off with this nightmare. 	Ahya, mer ad teẓrem acu i urgaɣ! Ccwi kan ur ddiɣ ara. 
eng	kab	Tom stayed by my side. 	Yeqqim-d Tom ɣer tama-w. 
eng	kab	It's not like that we put the tripod on the "Kanoun" hearth, stunned guy! 	Mačči akken i srusuyen inyan ɣef ukanun, ay inyen! 
eng	kab	That's all we have. If we let it go, it's going to be our final mass. 	D aya i nesɛa d ayla-nneɣ. Ma nserreḥ-as, terwi fell-aɣ. 
eng	kab	“There are some people who only manage to enjoy themselves when they are in a herd. The true hero is one who manages to have fun alone", said Charles Baudelaire. 	"Llan kra werǧin ad zhun ma ur llin d tiqeḍɛit. Argaz afeḥli d win yumren s yiman-is kan", i d-inna Charles Baudelaire. 
eng	kab	You shouted. You have been pestilent. But so far, you have not been a traitor. 	Beṛṛ, tenniḍ-t. Lɛeṛ tebbwiḍ-t. Tiddin ur teddiḍ ara. 
eng	kab	Snakes never kiss anyone. 	Ur yeţţak uzrem taqemmuct. 
eng	kab	Who's cooking dinner tonight? 	Anta ara d-iniwlen imensi iḍ-a? 
eng	kab	Everyone from here has been there in great numbers. 	Ayenda iṛuḥ ar din, d ayendin! 
eng	kab	Here comes the turn of those who had nothing to say. 	Win ifut wawal, yini. 
eng	kab	You did what? 	Dacu akka tgiḍ? 
eng	kab	We'll definitely come. 	Hatan ihi, ad d-nas. 
eng	kab	Hunger never provides for anyone. 	Werǧin yeţţak laẓ aɣṛum. 
eng	kab	I'll get them some milk. 	Ad asent-id-awiɣ ayekfi. 
eng	kab	I want to sell this bicycle. 	Bɣiɣ ad zzenzeɣ aγilu-a. 
eng	kab	I'm unable to pay now. 	Ur zmireɣ ara ad xellṣeɣ tura. 
eng	kab	In French, I manage to fend myself; in Kabyle, on the other hand, the road will be longer. 	S tṛumit, sqerwiḥeɣ ciṭ; ma s teqbaylit, ad yiɣzif umecwaṛ! 
eng	kab	Say, you who point your finger at the moon, do you think it serious? 	A win yeţmalen s uḍad, mel-iyi ma teṛtaḥeḍ? 
eng	kab	“When you see a good person, think of becoming like her/him. When you see someone not so good, reflect on your own weak points,” said Confucius. 	"Ma temmugreḍ-d argaz yelhan, xas ɛaned-it; ma d yir terras, nadi deg yiman-ik, kra n wayen tufiḍ deg-s dir-it," i d-yenna Confucius. 
eng	kab	I collected my belongings and left. 	Jemɛeɣd lqec-iw fɣeɣ d. 
eng	kab	Did Tom leave you? 	Ɛni yeǧǧa-ken Tom? 
eng	kab	We were told at that times that when the ogress "Ţeriel" removes her belt, then fell all the snakes, toads and lizards she kept to eat them later ... Once we were told those awful stories, we the children, we had only to sleep between the arms of our grandmothers to avoid the unavoidable nightmares. 	Ɣef akken i ɣ-d-ḥekkun zik, yerna ssexlaɛen-aɣ, Ţeriel mara tefsi aggus, dɣa ţeɣlayen-d akw izerman d yimqerqar d tzermemmucin teǧǧa deg iciwan-is, teţţu ur tent-tečča ara... Mi k-d-ḥkan akka, xas kan ṛuḥ eṭṭes deg rebbi n temɣaṛin, neɣ terwi: ma meẓẓiyeḍ ad texxelxleḍ. 
eng	kab	I can't believe such a lazy man will accomplish his job! 	Ur cukkeɣ ameɛgazu-a ad ifru ccɣel-is! 
eng	kab	You want it, without wanting it. 	Tebɣam-ţ, ur ţ-tebɣim. 
eng	kab	Excuse me if my sentence is crooked. 	Suref-iyi ma teɛwej tenfalit-a. 
eng	kab	Who spoke to Tom? 	Anwa i yemmeslayen i Tom? 
eng	kab	Speak of the devil and he appears. 	Adder-d aqjun, rfed amerṭaẓ. 
eng	kab	Are yous busy? 	Tceɣleḍ? 
eng	kab	Who's cooking dinner tonight? 	Anwi ara d-iniwlen imensi iḍ-a? 
eng	kab	"Where nobody knows you, you are only worth the costume you wear," said cantor Matoub Lounes. 	"Anda ur k-issin yiwen, akken telsiḍ i teswiḍ", i s-inna ucennay ucbiḥ Lwennas Maɛṭub. 
eng	kab	I swear I have absolutely nothing. 	Jmaɛliman, ma sɛiɣ ula d taqeṭṭiṭ. 
eng	kab	Some are just obese, others have a bonus goiter. 	Wa yeffaẓẓer kan, wa yerna aḥezqul. 
eng	kab	That's my motto. 	D ta i d taqbaylit-iw. 
eng	kab	The tree said to an ax: "Mercy, you are killing me!" "My handle is from you," replied the ax. "Too bad, so much for me! Then strike, then, since I gave l you my hand! " 	Tenna-as tseklut i tgelzimt: "Ad kem-ixdeɛ Ṛebbi, tḍuṛṛeḍ-iyi!" "Afus-iw, seg-m i d-yekka!" i as-d-terra. "Yah, a taqfiṛt-iw ! Ihi wwet kan, imi d nekk i m-ifkan afus!" 
eng	kab	Where did you find this beautiful baby? 	Anda i tufiḍ awarac-agi? 
eng	kab	Some are just chubby, others have a bonus goiter. 	Wa yeffaẓẓer kan, wa yerna aḥezqul. 
eng	kab	I still have such a long way to go! 	Ay gar-ak ad awḍeɣ! 
eng	kab	Expect her to be fired, since she is often late for work. 	Qaṛeɛ kan ad as-d-mlen abrid imi tezga d aɛeṭṭel ar uxeddim. 
eng	kab	I'll get you some milk. 	Ad am-d-qewwreɣ ayefki. 
eng	kab	Better to sleep with torment than to get up with regrets. 	Axir ad tenseḍ deg uɣilif wala ad d-tekkreḍ di nndama. 
eng	kab	I pulled a rope and a whole mountain collapsed. 	Jebdeɣ-d amrar, yedda-d wedrar. 
eng	kab	We no longer have the strength to lift loads. 	Ulac tayeţ ara irefden taẓeyt! 
eng	kab	Plowing looks so easy when you see it done by others. 	Teshel tyerza s wallen. 
eng	kab	According to Aristotle: "The ignorant affirms, the learned doubts, the wise reflects." 	Yenna-t-id Aristotélès: "Ungif yeţgalla, amusnaw yeţcukku, ukyis yeswingim." 
eng	kab	Yep, go to Tatoeba and write it there! 	Ih, ṛuḥ ar Tatoeba, taruḍ-t-id din! 
eng	kab	The person sitting next to me started talking to me. 	Amdan-nni yeqqimen ar tama-w yebda yeţmeslay-iyi-d. 
eng	kab	The sun's up, but it's cloudy. 	Iṭij yekker-d, maca d asigna. 
eng	kab	Absolutely not! 	Ulac akk aya! 
eng	kab	The teacher of yesteryear allowed intelligent students to express themselves: he often spent his time only giving advice. He was like the person responsible for the distribution of irrigation water in the villages: he only channelled the water to the right recipient. 	Ccix n zik yeţţaǧǧa tadwilt i wid i yḥeṛcen: tikwal, yeţţili kan i uwelleh. Am win i d-iţţarran targa, ma yella wass ideg tessweḍ tibḥirt. Aman teddun d akessar, d win yesswayen i yeẓran anda i ylaq ad rren. 
eng	kab	People like others in different ways. 	Yal wa asif i t-iwwin. 
eng	kab	He bugs me. 	Yečča-d afwad-iw. 
eng	kab	We need to do it now. 	Ilaq-aɣ ad t-neg tura. 
eng	kab	I'll get you some milk. 	Ad am-d-heggiɣ ayekfi. 
eng	kab	Many people hold back, once destabilized. 	Aṭas i yeţwexxiṛen mara nxerwaɛn. 
eng	kab	My eyes aren't gray. 	Allen-iw mačči d tiɣiɣdin. 
eng	kab	Do you remember her name? 	Tecfiḍ ɣef yisem-is? 
eng	kab	She cannot ignore him: he is the first to have distinguished himself among her children. 	Ulamek ara t-tɣunzu: d win i d-yufraren gar tarwa-s. 
eng	kab	“My chest is about to burst. My lungs are full." " Me too, hey, they're saturated." 	"Idmaren-iw demmken. Ha-t-anad ččuṛen..." "Ula d nekk akken: Ṛuḥen ad sebken." 
eng	kab	Did Tom leave you? 	Ɛni yeǧǧa-kent Tom? 
eng	kab	Hmm... I said that to myself here, too! 	Mmm... Akka i s-nniɣ ula d nekk!... 
eng	kab	The Kabyle language can therefore compete with others, when it is necessary! 	Ticki i tekḥes, ziɣ tezmer teqbaylit i tiyiḍ! 
eng	kab	It's the world upside down. 	Tuɣal tbarda ɣef ucwari. 
eng	kab	"They allow themselves to be scalped by the first comer ... They perish where they were born ... And they take pleasure in bliss ..." (Muḥend U Yahia [1950-2004], Kabyle playwright, about the Berbers) 	"Win d-yusan ad ten-yelles... Anda lulen i ţmeţţaten... Yerna dessen..." (Muḥend U Yahia, Moḥya [1950-2004] ɣef yimaziɣen) 
eng	kab	Good words are better than money. 	Awal ẓiden, yif iṣuṛdiyen! 
eng	kab	The one who behaves like the cat (as well as me, sometimes, there was a time), we say of him: "If he orders you to wash yourself, you might as well get dirty!" 	Win ixeddmen am umcic (am nekk tikwal, zik), qqaṛen-as: "Ma yenna-yak sired, xas ames!" 
eng	kab	No strand goes with the other. 	Tingeḍt ur teddi d ultmas. 
eng	kab	I love the flavor of Italian dolce vita! 	Ḥemmleɣ dayen kan tudert tacawrart taṭeliant! 
eng	kab	How much more time will you need? 	Acḥal n lweqt n zzyada ara tiḥwiǧeḍ? 
eng	kab	The world is a people. 	Amaḍal d aɣref. 
eng	kab	Give him my greetings. 	Sellem fell-as. 
eng	kab	It did not remain attached neither to the skin nor to the carcass 	Ur yeqqim d uglim, ur yeddi d uksum. 
eng	kab	“This year will be amazing. Far better than the coming year, ”said Lounis Ait-Mengellat LAM. 	"Assegwas-agi ad yelhu. Ad yiff win i d-teddun," i s-inna Lewnis Ait-Mengellat LAM. 
eng	kab	Who's Tom friends with? 	Tom d amdakkel n wumi? 
eng	kab	Wherever he laid his hat was his home. 	Anda yessers asebbaḍ-is, d axxam-is. 
eng	kab	All that is good is iron, the rest is only ferule. 	Ayen yelhan d uzzal, ayen n diri d ajelqaḍ. 
eng	kab	I'll get you some milk. 	Ad am-d-ḍebbṛeɣ ayekfi. 
eng	kab	Wherever he set foot, he was at home. 	Anda yessers asebbaḍ-is, d axxam-is. 
eng	kab	When we can finally sleep, we will rest. 	Asmi ar aɣ-d-yas yiḍes, ad nesgunfu. 
eng	kab	There is absolutely nothing left! 	Ur d-yeqqimen qim! 
eng	kab	How are you doing lately? 	Amek tettiliḍ ussan-ayi? 
eng	kab	"Which of these paths do you prefer?" we asked a donkey stuck between an ascending and a descending trail. "I wish there were a pickax to demolish both of them," he replied. 	"Anwa abrid ay axir?", i as-nnan i uɣyul i yḥeṣlen gar ukessar d usawen; yerra-asen: "buddeɣ-asen agelzim i sin". 
eng	kab	There are too many arrogant, mocking people. As much for me, I must give them some slack. 	Ṭuqten wigi yeţneɛniɛen, ţqejjimen. Yecqa-i, ad sen-sɣezfeɣ amrar. 
eng	kab	We are not going to let the cat churn what we milked after all! 	Ahat, ur ilaq ara ad neţţeẓẓeg, ad yessenduy umcic! 
eng	kab	"This one is yours, this one is mine and the other, we share it." This is what we would have said if we want to make lie the Kabyle fable of the couple of frogs when the male said: "This one is mine, this one is mine and the other, we share it", the day they decided to separate. 	"Wa inek, wa inu, wa ad tnebḍu af sin". Ma ad neskiddeb tanesqqist n yimqeṛqeṛ i s-iqqaṛen i temqeṛquṛt: "Wa inu, wa inu, wa ad tnebḍu af sin", asmi bɣan ad feṛqen. 
eng	kab	Whoever has a frog in his throat begins to belch. 	Win umi tewḥel tkerdeddit, ad ţ-yerr ɣer yigergiɛen. 
eng	kab	I apologize if I forgot any others. 	Surfet-iyi ma yella win ţuɣ. 
eng	kab	Who's cooking dinner tonight? 	Anti ara d-iniwlen imensi iḍ-a? 
eng	kab	"What is that weakling that you put on the picture" replied Ssinistri?" 	"Dacu-t ubeɛṭeẓẓiw-agi n tewlaft i as-d-terriḍ?" i as-d-yerra dɣa Ssinistri? 
eng	kab	I will always remember, till the 60's, the grime in our noses due to the fumes from the kerosene lamp. We always had tried to wash ourselves, it remained; especially when it was freezing, we could only do very basic toilet. 	Cfiɣ-d, armi d iseggasen n '60, i yimbuxxen-nni n tlezdit n teftilt n petrol, werǧin ad ten-ţţuɣ. Sired neɣ qim, ladɣa ticki yella wegris, nessirid kan am yemcac. 
eng	kab	They're reading her book. 	La qaṛen adlis-is. 
eng	kab	If he wants to come, let him do so. What is preventing him? 	Ma ira ad d-yas, yas-d. Yella win i s-yugin? 
eng	kab	How much more time will you need? 	Acḥal n lweqt n zzyada ara tiḥwiǧemt? 
eng	kab	Grace is a way to fall to the top. 	Nnig waffug d tarusi. 
eng	kab	Hmm... that's also what I said to myself just now! 	Mmm... Akka i s-nniɣ ula d nekk!... 
eng	kab	Tom wasn't looking for you. He was looking for Mary. 	Mačči d fell-ak i yella yettnadi Tom. D Mary i yettnadi. 
eng	kab	Whoever sleeps until noon, then starts to run. 	Yeṭṭes ar azal, imir yeţţazzal. 
eng	kab	They got a copper dagger burried centuries ago. 	Ufan ajenwi n nḥas, ynṭel d leqrun aya. 
eng	kab	Finally, nobody came! 	Taggara, yiwen ur d-yusi! 
eng	kab	They apparently have the same accent as the Tuaregs, with the same emphatic intonations (warm voices). Igwanciyen, the Guanches, the only Berbers not to have been Islamized. To meditate... 	Sɛan kifkif deg ususru d illɣayen ufayen akked itergiyen. Igwanciyen d aɣref amaziɣ werǧin teɛdda fell-asen tineslemt. Twalam dɣa, amek... 
eng	kab	Maybe you are cold since you are shivering? 	Ahat yenɣa-k usemmiḍ, mi teccaṛṛweḍ? 
eng	kab	I just added these two sentences. 	Tura hah, i rniɣ snat-agi n tefyar. 
eng	kab	The diastems do not wear bad; they are called: the teeth of happiness. 	Win yesɛan azilal, ad t-yezgel uzaylal. 
eng	kab	The mortar and pestle always go together. 	Azduz d umehraz, akken i ddukulen. 
eng	kab	We lend barley to those who have wheat. 	Win yesɛan irden, ṛeṭṭlen-as timẓin. 
eng	kab	Some have everything, others have plenty of time and some still see it all. 	Wa yufa, wa yestufa, wa yerwa tilufa. 
eng	kab	The sky darkened without any raining. 	Igenni d aɣembanbu, ɣas ur d yegli s waman. 
eng	kab	He took into his mind to make me dig a pit for my father, while confiscating me the pickaxe. 	Yeggul deg-i ad ɣzeɣ tasraft i baba, yerna yuker-iyi agelzim. 
eng	kab	Absolutely not! 	D awezɣi maḍi! 
eng	kab	Nobody counted on Tom coming. 	Yiwen ur yeţkil ad d-yas Tom. 
eng	kab	I think he needs to go there. 	Cukkeɣ ilaq ad iṛuḥ. 
eng	kab	You did what? 	Dacu tgiḍ? 
eng	kab	All those who churn the wind believe they can grow. 	Kra n wid yessenduyen aman, ad asen-yimɣuṛ usfel. 
eng	kab	Did Tom leave you? 	Ɛni yeǧǧa-k Tom? 
eng	kab	She cannot ignore him: he is the first to stand out among her children. 	Ulamek ara t-tɣunzu: d win i d-yufraren gar tarwa-s. 
eng	kab	Life's good! 	Telha tumert! 
eng	kab	Ah, so this is the one who dared to remove me from his list without telling me why. I had forgotten, hey, and you come to remind me! 	Ihi, ziɣ d wa iyi-kksen kan akka seg umuɣ-is, yibbwas deg ussan, ur iyi-d-inni ɣef wacu. Nniqal, ţuɣ-t akk, tura diɣ tesmektim-aɣ-t-id! 
eng	kab	Open the frame in a new tab. 	Ldi akatar deg yiccer amaynut. 
eng	kab	A door ends up loosening, when it is left ajar for a long time. 	Du laqrar ad teclex tebburt, ma tezga tebṛaṛaḥ. 
eng	kab	Anyway, the bat that is believed to be the source of the COVID-19 virus will have stunned us, since no one expected it. 	Akken yebɣu yili, azeɣnennay-agi i d-yewwin ahat avirus CoVid-19, imi ur nebni fell-as, yesɛedda fell-aɣ azaylal. 
eng	kab	I said it was OK for him to go. 	Nniɣ-d dakken yella yezmer ad iṛuḥ. 
eng	kab	Tom will sue Mary. 	Tom ad yetbeɛ Mary. 
eng	kab	Tom painted the table. 	Tom yesbeɣ ṭṭabla-nni. 
eng	kab	Out hands, that we make them work or save them, To become dust is their lot. 	Ifassen ama nessexdem-iten, ama neḥrez-iten, d akal ara ten-yeččen. 
eng	kab	We have to get there fast and first. 	Yessefk ad nṛuḥ ar din tura yerna s uɣiwel. 
eng	kab	Phew, you at least, you listen to me! 	Uk, meqqaṛ d kečč tesliḍ-iyi-d! 
eng	kab	Notice. 	Ger tamawt. 
eng	kab	As an old Kabyle saying goes: "Help those who are in need. As for God, leave him to others." 	Akken d-inna yinzi aqbuṛ aqbayli: "Rfed win ur nesɛi ifadden, ma d Ṛebbi, eǧǧ-it i medden." 
eng	kab	The thing that really matters is not to live, but to live well. 	Mačči i tudert ara nidir kan, ilaq deg tumert. 
eng	kab	Sometimes, it's in the questions, when they're well-formed, that the answers are found. 	Tikwal, deg tuţţriwin, ma gerrzent, ar ad tafeḍ tifrat. 
eng	kab	Would this be possible? 	Wissen ma ad yili waya? 
eng	kab	From January to June, the sun rises earlier. 	Si Yennayer ar Yunyu, simi yttali wass zik. 
eng	kab	What would happen if we were silent? Or, it would be our party! Whatever we do, it's a dead end! 	Wissen win yessusmen, amek? Neɣ ahat, imiren i teẓmek! Ay ansa i s-nekka ulamek! 
eng	kab	As I milk, the cat churns. 	Ţeẓgeɣ, yessenduy umcic! 
eng	kab	We need to do it now. 	Ilaq-aɣ tura ad t-neg. 
eng	kab	Tom stayed by my side. 	Yeqqim-d Tom ɣer yidis-iw. 
eng	kab	Hi to those over there. 	Azul dinna. 
eng	kab	Something needs to be changed. 	Yella wacu ara ibeddlen da. 
eng	kab	Did you study hard? 	Tefkam-as ddḥis i leqṛaya? 
eng	kab	It's as long as we wake up. 	Awi-d kan ad d-neddekwel. 
eng	kab	You guys are very sick. 	Tuḍnem nezzeh. 
eng	kab	The really important thing is not to live, but to live well. 	Mačči i tudert ara nidir kan, ilaq deg tumert. 
eng	kab	This the only way to go. We should stop dithering! 	D wagi i d iswi ara yessiwḍen. Ulac akkin neɣ akkad! 
eng	kab	“I will follow my path. I don't think I'll be back,” had said the rebel singer Matoub, long before they murdered him. 	"Abrid ad t-awiɣ. Wissen ma ad d-zziɣ", i d-inna ucennay aḥrur Maɛṭub, acḥal send ad t-nɣen. 
eng	kab	Tom was very determined. 	Tom yefra-tt d yiman-is. 
eng	kab	Yes, I am hale and hearty! 	Ih, aql-i ṭṭenṭuneɣ! 
eng	kab	Did Tom leave you? 	Ɛni yeǧǧa-kem Tom? 
eng	kab	Igwanciyen, the Guanches, the only Berbers who have not been Islamized. To meditate ... 	Igwanciyen d aɣref amaziɣ werǧin teɛdda fell-asen tineslemt. Twalam dɣa, amek... 
eng	kab	Some are simply plump, others have a bonus goiter. 	Wa yeffaẓẓer kan, wa yerna aḥezqul. 
eng	kab	Where did you go foot ? to the root. 	Anda teddiḍ ay aḍar ? s aẓar. 
eng	kab	They're very sick. 	Uḍnen nezzeh. 
eng	kab	Absolutely not! 	Negzem-iţ s wulac! 
eng	kab	The boy is there. 	Atan uqcic din. 
eng	kab	He who has a frog in his throat begins to belch. 	Win umi tewḥel tkerdeddit, ad ţ-yerr ɣer yigergiɛen. 
eng	kab	This language kills fascists. 	Tameslayt-a tneɣ ifacisten. 
eng	kab	Try to distract yourself. 	Ewwet akken ad tedhuḍ. 
eng	kab	Say, you who point your finger at the moon, are you really serious? 	A win yeţmalen s uḍad, mel-iyi ma teṛtaḥeḍ? 
eng	kab	He is fed up. 	Yeggumma. 
eng	kab	Try to distract yourself. 	Eεṛeḍ ad tedhuḍ. 
eng	kab	You continue to feed the poor water mill with worn out gears! 	Terniḍ-as-d aman i yir tissirt umi ufgent teryacin! 
eng	kab	Barbary fig produces very expensive oil. 	Akeṛmus yttak-d zzit ɣlayen aṭas. 
eng	kab	I'm just calling it like I see it. 	Nniɣ-d akka, ur d-nniɣ. 
eng	kab	Bad faith is so despicable! 	Acḥal diri tizzelgi! 
eng	kab	Don't be nice to those who might forget it, and don't be mean to those who might remember. 	Ur teg, ama d lxir i win ara t-yeţţun, ama d ccer i win ara s-yecfun. 
eng	kab	He softened it (speaking of a food). 	Yesḥelmumec-it (ticki d tagella)! 
eng	kab	As he was premature, he was weak; now he is smart. 	Segmi d aserba, nniqal yekɛer; yuɣal yekker. 
eng	kab	He assumes everything. 	Yerra ɣef yiri-s. 
eng	kab	This was a poem. 	Tuɣ d asefru. 
eng	kab	Did you bring any warm clothes? 	Tawwiḍ-d kra n yiceṭṭiḍen yeḥman? 
eng	kab	Especially you, we won't find anyone who doesn't know you! 	Ladɣa kečč, kkes-d win ur k-nessin! 
eng	kab	You continue to feed the poor water mill whose gears have worn out! 	Terniḍ-as-d aman i yir tissirt umi ufgent teryacin! 
eng	kab	The word "tajerrumt or tagerrumt" (grammar, in Berber) was used by the Garamantes women of Libya to write their registers in Punico-Libyan and organize everything concerning the gold trade between black Africa and the surrounding Mediterranean area. 	Awal "tajerrumt, tagerrumt, tagaramant", snulfant-ţ-id tilawin n Gerruma (tura Garama, Libya) i yebdan ţarunt s tutlayt tufniqt talibit i useqdec deg lkumers n uraɣ gar tmura n Tefriqt taberkant akked tmura d-yezzin i ugrakal. 
eng	kab	The elephant is extinct in North Africa. 	Denfil ynger deg Tefriqt ugafa. 
eng	kab	A word is like a bullet; output, it doesn't come back. 	Awal am terṣaṣt; mi yeffeɣ, ur d-iţţuɣal. 
eng	kab	I am exhausted, extremely tired. 	Ffaggweɣ, ɛiɣ armi d ulamek. 
eng	kab	We're not selling our house to Tom. 	Ur neznuzu ara axxam-nneɣ i Tom. 
eng	kab	I've always lived in someone else's home. 	Zgiɣ zedɣeɣ ar wiyiḍ. 
eng	kab	Where is the ox looking then? He stares at the barley that the donkey is chewing. The people refuse the gutter, the power does not want to hear about it. And, as we will still hang around for a long time, citizens are still seeking their right to progress. 	Azger sani yeţmuqul? Ar temẓin yeɛlef weɣyul. Agdud yugi agudu, adabu yugi ad iddu. Ad nernu tuṭṭfa n waddud, segmi aɣref yebɣa amgud! 
eng	kab	He's eating propolis near the hearth where an incandescent fire is burning. 	Iteţ ibeqqis, tama n yilmes ideg teddegdig tmes. 
eng	kab	You did what? 	Dacu txedmeḍ? 
eng	kab	I set a snare trap. 	Udiɣ taxeffeţ. 
eng	kab	The boy is there. 	Aqcic atan din. 
eng	kab	The rainbow is also called in Kabyle "the belt of Ţeriel". 	Tislit n wanẓar, qqaṛen-as diɣ s teqbaylit « aggus n Ţeriel ». 
eng	kab	"I want to embody evil so that no one carries me on their back", says a Kabyle saying. 	"Bɣiɣ ad uɣaleɣ d ddnub, akken yiwet, yiwen, ur iyi-ţbibb", i yeqqar yiwen uwennit aqbayli. 
eng	kab	I hope this helps a little. 	Sarameɣ ad iɛiwen waya. 
eng	kab	They're very sick. 	Uḍnent nezzeh. 
eng	kab	Wherever I left my stones, I'll go back, said the river. 	Anda ǧǧiɣ adɣaɣ-iw, ad uɣaleɣ ɣuṛ-s, i s-inna wasif. 
eng	kab	Since daybreak, he hasn't stopped chattering. 	Segmi d-yenqeṛ yiṭij, ur yerri iles-is gar tuɣmas-is. 
eng	kab	I'll get you some milk. 	Ad am-d-ḥebbreɣ ayefki. 
eng	kab	The white wool, if it was the lion and not the lamb that yields it, few will be those who will wear a burnous. 	Taduṭṭ mellulen, lemmer d izmawen mačči d ulli i tt-isburren, drus win ara yelsen abernus. 
eng	kab	There are those who eat without being hungry, and then there are those who are hungry and do not even eat. 	Llan wid i teţţen fiḥel ma lluẓen, rnu diɣ wid yelluẓen ur teţţen. 
eng	kab	It is better for each to cover the other, rather than for each to blame the other. 	Wa ad yesfaḍ i wa, yif wa ad yesfaḍ ɣef wa. 
eng	kab	He sucks all the air out of me. 	Yečča-d afwad-iw. 
eng	kab	I'll get you some milk. 	Ad am-d-jabeɣ ayefki. 
eng	kab	You never surrendered. 	Werǧin teǧǧiḍ ṭbel ad yellexs. 
eng	kab	I wonder why we were born? Maybe it's just to have offspring. 	Wissen ayɣeṛ i d-nlul? Waqil, akken ad d-nernu tissi-nniḍen! 
eng	kab	I'm still planning to go to Boston. 	Mazal ttxeṭṭiṭeɣ ad ṛuḥeɣ ɣer Boston. 
eng	kab	That's all we have. If we let it go, it will be our final mass. 	D aya i nesɛa d ayla-nneɣ. Ma nserreḥ-as, terwi fell-aɣ. 
eng	kab	I'll get you some milk. 	Ad ak-d-awiɣ ayekfi. 
eng	kab	Even the toponym Tunis, Tunes, comes from the verb ens [NS]: Tunes is the soldiers' night camp. It's like you say. 	Ula d isem n Tunes, yekka-d seg umyag ens [NS]: Tunes d anda ţnusun iserdasen (camp de nuit). Akka d-tenniḍ ara yili. 
eng	kab	If he wants to come, let him come. What is preventing him? 	Ma ira ad d-yas, yas-d. Yella win i s-yugin? 
eng	kab	Tom won't stay with you. 	Tom ur ittɣimi ara yid-kent. 
eng	kab	Come hell or high water! 	Γli-d ay adrar fell-i! 
eng	kab	Did you study hard? 	Tefkiḍ-as ddḥis i leqṛaya? 
eng	kab	Discussion shed light on the solution. 	Awal it-yferrun d awal. 
eng	kab	We still have such a long way to go to reach our goal in this world! 	Ay gar-ak akken ad teddu ddunit-a ar yiswi i nessaram! 
eng	kab	Who isn't afraid? 	Anwa ur nugad ara? 
eng	kab	The "At-Frawsen" people have no faults at all. With us, there are no half measures: when someone is pierced, he/she spills out like oil! 	Iterrasen n At-Frawsen, ur sɛin ara akw nnun. Nekwni, ɣuṛ-neɣ, ulac ciṭuḥ: win iqqerṣen ad yemmir kan! 
eng	kab	What is the use of being born! 	Lal-d tura ad tidireḍ! 
eng	kab	May the devil take me! 	Mebla qessam-iw! 
eng	kab	We're very sick. 	Nuḍen nezzeh. 
eng	kab	Anyway, the bat that is believed to be the source of the COVID-19 virus will have flabbergasted us, since no one expected it. 	Akken yebɣu yili, azeɣnennay-agi i d-yewwin ahat avirus CoVid-19, imi ur nebni fell-as, yesɛedda fell-aɣ azaylal. 
eng	kab	They're reading her book. 	La qaṛent adlis-is. 
