eng	kab	Tom isn't a tomcat. 	Tom mačči d amcic. 
eng	kab	Here, our expectations are spread over the reversing of the sheep's skins dried by the descendants of Koceila who wipe their faces for centuries, hoping to erase the humiliations they have suffered, as well as us, when the looters arose. 	Dagi, timsirin ha-tent ḍelqent ɣef uɛrur n ilmesyar i zgan skawen warraw n wAksil mara sfaḍen udmawen-nsen d leqrun-aya, ɣallen ad kksen tiɣɣubna i ten-yeẓdan, yerna-aɣ i nekkni, asmi d-ẓerẓin iserɣiyen. 
eng	kab	I've started playing sports again. 	Uɣaleɣ xeddmeɣ addal. 
eng	kab	Please bring my phone with you. 	Ttxil-k, glu-d s usawal-inu. 
eng	kab	Tom hates girls. 	Tom yekreh tullas. 
eng	kab	Tom and Ken play tennis every evening. 	Ton d Ken tturaren Tennis yel tameddit. 
eng	kab	I took French in high school. 	Xtareɣ Fransa deg tesnawit. 
eng	kab	Tom's idea isn't a very good one. 	Tikti n Tom ur telhi ara yakk. 
eng	kab	My neighbors are very loud. 	Ljiran-iw xeddmen aṭas n ṣṣut. 
eng	kab	Today, March 8, is the feast of the woman, they say. It may be our grandmother, our mother, our sister, our daughter, even more so the one with whom we face life, whether we agree or not. 	Assa n 8 di Meɣres, am akka d tafaska n tmeṭṭut. Ta d jida-t-neɣ, ta d tayemmaţ, ta d weltma-t-neɣ, ta d yelli-t-neɣ, ta ɛad d tin wukud neţţemɛntay deg tmeddurt, ha nemṣada, ha nemgarad. 
eng	kab	Who's the lady Tom is speaking to? 	D anwa-tt tameṭṭut-ina umi ihedder Tom? 
eng	kab	Tom wears a coat. 	Tom yelsa akebbuḍ. 
eng	kab	I don't like cats, and my brother doesn't either. 	Ur yi-εǧiben ara yemcac, yerna akken ula d gma. 
eng	kab	Our young women and men living under duress, those who do nothing but seek to lean on the shoulder of who does not have one, in the arms of companions whose property would have been granted by shameful procedures, baited as they were by futile charms and chimeras, all these must take their courage in both hands to seek a way out in order to come out of the deep darkness, by them themselves, whether they are men or women. 	Tilmeẓyin-nneɣ d yilmeẓyen yeţwarzen, tid akked wid yeţnadin kan tayeţ ɣer win d tin ur-ţ-nesɛi, gar iɣallen n umwanes d temwanest kan yellan deg ssɛaya n wid i umi teţţunefk tegniţ i ifuṛsen wid ten-yeṛban deg miḥyaf n tumert, i sḍemɛen s yilellucen, s tirga, wigi ilaq-asen ad kerrcen aqendur akken ad nadin ɣef tmeddurt ara ten-yessufɣen seg tillas d timḍellas, s yiman-nsen, ama d tallest ama d alles. 
eng	kab	I swear by all the saints that we will never see the light as long as we continue to milk skinny goats hoping to extract butter from them! 	Jmaɛliman ma tuɣal ad d-ban tafat ma deg tuẓzga n taɣaḍt takɛurt ideg ara neḍmeɛ tawaract n wudi! 
eng	kab	Freedom of sexuality is a necessary human right. 	Tilelli n tuzzuft d azref n umdan i iwatan. 
eng	kab	That isn't how we think. 	Mačči akka i nettxemmim. 
eng	kab	Tom was trapped inside. 	Tom yella yettwaḥeṛṛ sdaxel. 
eng	kab	My sentences are original: this is why those who shamelessly plagiarize me denounce themselves. 	Tifyar-iw d tiẓaṛanin: daymi d-ţbanen imir kan imakaren yeţɛaraḍen aɣ-ɛanden ɛinani. 
eng	kab	Why don't we get married in Australia? 	Acuɣer ur nzewweǧ ara deg Ustṛalya? 
eng	kab	He will get what is coming to him! 	Ur t-yeţfat wara! 
eng	kab	Just as they wanted to cross the ford, they were intimidated. What could it be? 	Wwḍent ar yeɣẓer, ssetḥant. D acu-tent? 
eng	kab	Tom's not Jewish. 	Tom mačči d uday. 
eng	kab	When someone has hiccups, some tell him that he stole the cat's share of meat. 	Win teṭṭef tḥiṭect, qqaren-as tukreḍ-d taqeṭṭit n umcic. 
eng	kab	I have an oat spikelet across my throat. 	Yewḥel-iyi uẓemẓum deg taɣect. 
eng	kab	That isn't what I expected to hear. 	Mačči d ayen i lliɣ ttrajuɣ ad s-sleɣ. 
eng	kab	Is Tom any good? 	Yelha tom? 
eng	kab	It's Tom that Mary wants to see. 	Mary d Tom i tebɣa ad twali. 
eng	kab	That's true, too. 	D tidet ula d tagi. 
eng	kab	I'd never confide in Tom. 	D leɛmer ad ttekleɣ af Tom. 
eng	kab	I wish I'd stayed at home yesterday. 	Bɣiɣ ad qqimeɣ deg uxxam azekka. 
eng	kab	Thorny as they are, brambles give blackberries. 	Xas inijjel d asennan, yeţţak-d tizwal. 
eng	kab	Have you had dinner already? 	Teččam yakan imensi? 
eng	kab	Tom laughed when everyone else laughed, but the truth was that he didn't understand a single word of what they said. 	Tom yeḍṣa imi medden merra ḍṣan, yuɣ lḥal deg tidet ur yegzi ara awal ɣef ayen i d-nnan. 
eng	kab	He is said to have spent a few years in Spain. 	Qqaren-d yesεedda kra iseggasen deg Spenyul. 
eng	kab	This is why I often multiply the translations: it is to pull the rug out from under the feet of those who shamelessly plagiarize us. 	Hatan ayɣer i zgiɣ ţakeɣ-d aṭas n tsuqilin: i wakken ad sen-ḥerrfeɣ iḍaṛṛen i wigad i ɣ-yeţţakren tifyar wer asetḥi. 
eng	kab	Did you calm down? 	Trekdeḍ? 
eng	kab	Can you get there by bike? 	Tzemreḍ ad truḥeḍ ɣer da s uvilu? 
eng	kab	We often eat raw fish. 	Nuɣ tanumi nttett iselman d izegzawen. 
eng	kab	I think that Tom bought the house he was looking at last week. 	Waqila Tom yuɣ axxam-nni i ɣef yettnadi imalas-nni yeẓrin. 
eng	kab	Tom took a left. 	Tom yerra ɣer tama tazelmaḍt. 
eng	kab	What was Tom drinking? 	Acu i yella itess Tom? 
eng	kab	I told Tom he needed to relax. 	Nniɣ-as i Tom ilaq-as ad yessers iman-is. 
eng	kab	What French words do you know? 	Acu n wawalen s tefṛansist i tessneḍ? 
eng	kab	How long the route will be before we reach our goal! 	Ay gar-ak ad naweḍ ɣer yiswi-nneɣ! 
eng	kab	A woman's place is wherever she wants to be. 	Amkan n tmeṭṭut yella anida i t-tebɣa ad yili. 
eng	kab	He saw a jackal run away. 	Iwala uccen yerwel. 
eng	kab	Beg me to eat. 	Ḥellet-iyi, ard awen-ččeɣ. 
eng	kab	Can I find someone here who speaks English? 	Zemreɣ ad afeɣ yiwen neɣ yiwet yettmeslayen Taglizit? 
eng	kab	My father has gone to China. He isn't here now. 	Baba iruḥ ɣer Ccinwa. Ulac-it da akka tura. 
eng	kab	Who let Tom leave? 	Aniwa i s-yeǧǧan i Tom ad yerwel? 
eng	kab	Both Tom and Mary looked sad. 	Tom d Mary i sin banen-d nnuɣnan. 
eng	kab	We live near the zoo. 	Nettidir ɣer tama n talmat n yiɣersiwen. 
eng	kab	Since Tom ran so fast, Mary couldn't catch up with him. 	Yuzzel Tom s tɣawla armi ur tessaweḍ ad t-telḥeq Mary. 
eng	kab	Every language, like every living thing, is inherently valuable and worthy of protection and support. 	Yal tutlayt, am kra n telmest yeddren, tettawi yid-s azalen u tuklal ad tt-yeḥrez yiwen u ad ibedd ɣer tama-s. 
eng	kab	Don't worry. I'll tell him. 	Ur tqelliq ara. Ad as-iniɣ. 
eng	kab	We're old men now. 	Aqlaɣ d imɣaren tura. 
eng	kab	Tom was my father. 	Tom yella d baba. 
eng	kab	Hand me the gun. 	Ṭṭef-iyi tameẓyant. 
eng	kab	Tom told Mary that he'd lost some weight. 	Yenna-s Tom i Mary yeḍɛef cwiya. 
eng	kab	He ran into some problems. 	Yedda ar kra iɣilifen. 
eng	kab	Please bring my phone with you. 	Ttxil-m, glu-d s usawal-inu. 
eng	kab	How much pain the evils have cost us that have never happened. 	Acḥal d lehmum i ɣ-imeḥḥnen werǧin i d-ḍrin. 
eng	kab	Remain calm no matter what Tom says. 	Thedden iman-ik ayen yebɣu yenna-t-id Tom. 
eng	kab	When I grow up, I want to be like him. 	Asmi ara imɣureɣ bɣiɣ ad iliɣ am kečč. 
eng	kab	Can you tell us why you refused to help Tom? 	Tzemreḍ ad aɣ-d-tiniḍ ayɣer i tugiḍ ad tɛawneḍ Tom. 
eng	kab	The referee disallowed a goal for offside. 	Anefray yekkes yiwen n yiswi axaṭer amyurar-nni yella beṛṛa n wurar. 
eng	kab	Why did you let Tom leave? 	Ayɣer i s-teǧǧiḍ i Tom ad iruḥ? 
eng	kab	They tried to scam me. 	Ɛerḍen ad iyi-xedɛen. 
eng	kab	It's the rat race. 	Texnez. 
eng	kab	We always try our best. 	Nekkat dima ad neg ayen akk iwumi nezmer. 
eng	kab	He meddles with what does not concern him. 	Ikeččem timkečmin. 
eng	kab	I might ask you to help me. 	Zemreɣ ad ak-d-ssutreɣ tallelt. 
eng	kab	The boy is alone. 	Aqcic-nni weḥd-s. 
eng	kab	Do you know where she is now? 	Teẓriḍ anida-tt tura? 
eng	kab	All my friends live in this city. 	Imdukkal-iw akk ttidiren deg temdint-agi. 
eng	kab	Check again in about three minutes. 	Rzu-d i tikkelt nniḍen akka waḥid kṛad n tedqiqin. 
eng	kab	Which scientist said that? 	Acu n umussnaw i d-yennan akka? 
eng	kab	Some kinds of birds can't steal. 	Kra n tewsatin n yefrax ur zmiren ara ad sriffgen. 
eng	kab	He contracted a hernia from carrying heavy loads. 	Teɣli-as timiḍt seg uskerfeɛ n tɛekmin ẓzayen. 
eng	kab	Is Tom still looking for a job? 	Mazel Tom yettnadi axeddim. 
eng	kab	How long has Tom been teaching you French? 	Acḥal aya i k-yesɣaray Tom Tafṛansist? 
eng	kab	They forgot me. 	Ttunt-iyi. 
eng	kab	There are lions in India. 	Llan yizmawen deg Lhend. 
eng	kab	In a good bookroom you feel in some mysterious way that you are absorbing the wisdom contained in all the books through your skin, without even opening them. 	Deg temkarḍit yelhan, yettili kra d imedreg ara k-yeǧǧen ad tḥulfuḍ tettsummuḍ tizemni yakk yellan deg idlisen-nni s tnalit kan, war ma teldiḍ-ten. 
eng	kab	Never again will I talk to him. 	Ur ttuɣaleɣ ara yakk ad mmeslayeɣ yid-s. 
eng	kab	How much time will you need to repair it? 	Acḥal n wakud i ak-ilaqen akken ad tṣeggmeḍ-t? 
eng	kab	Even though I thought I knew everything, the fact remains that I have stumbled into a world where not everything is black and white. 	Xas ţanint-iyi tsekrin, kecment-iyi tɣeṭṭen-iw ar yiger n temẓin werǧin neḥḍim. 
eng	kab	I'm glad that you're fine. 	Awi-d ukan fell-ak. 
eng	kab	Play Chopin for me. 	Qeṣṣer-iyi-d san yiwet n Chopin. 
eng	kab	I would like to make him happy. 	Bɣiɣ ad t-sferḥeɣ. 
eng	kab	The sky has fallen on his head. 	Tewwet-it tmedda. 
eng	kab	When the knees sway, it is the feet that clink. 	Igecriren ma feclen, d iḍaṛen ara tent-yaɣen. 
eng	kab	He who listens to knowledgeable people is smarter than the ignorant. 	Win yesmeḥsisen i wid yessnen, yif win iɛeẓgen. 
eng	kab	Who'll look after the children? 	Aniwa ara d-yelhun d warrac? 
eng	kab	Yanni doesn't know Skura's name. 	Yanni ur yessin ara isem n Skura. 
eng	kab	Tom didn't miss what he was aiming at. 	Tom ur yettu ara ayen i yebɣa. 
eng	kab	What time does this store close? 	Ɣef wacḥal ara temdel tḥanut-a? 
eng	kab	I wish my French was as good as Tom's. 	Ssarameɣ tarumit-iw ad telhu am tin n Tom. 
eng	kab	I'm willing to do anything you ask me. 	Weǧdeɣ ad xedmeɣ ayen akk i d-tessutreḍ. 
eng	kab	Why do you want to learn Portuguese? 	Iwacu tebɣiḍ ad tlemdeḍ tapurtugit? 
eng	kab	He's our neighbor. 	D anarag-nteɣ. 
eng	kab	I'm not in the mood for pizza. 	Ur ɣsiɣ ara pizza. 
eng	kab	They said hello to Sophie. 	Nnan-as azul i Sophie. 
eng	kab	Yanni was so upset. 	Yanni yerfa aṭas. 
eng	kab	They haven't cut any trees down. 	Ur gzimen ula d yiwen usaklu. 
eng	kab	Whoever excites wasps has only to blame himself. 	Win ineǧǧɛen arẓaẓen, yaf-iten. 
eng	kab	I had some really weird dreams tonight. 	Yeɛca-gi sɛiɣ kra n tirga d tiɣwaliyin. 
eng	kab	Who let Tom out? 	Aniwa i yeǧǧan Tom ad yeffeɣ? 
eng	kab	“Walk ahead of yourself, like the dromedary who guides the caravan,” says a Tuareg proverb. 	“Zwir zdat wul-ik, am ulɣem izeggiren i watma-s”, i s-yeqqar wanzi aṭergi. 
eng	kab	Either you kill yourself or I'll make sure to be widowed. 	Ya d kečč ara yenɣen iman-ik, ya ad xedmeɣ ayen i ilaqen akken ad griɣ d taǧǧalt 
eng	kab	Please bring my phone with you. 	Ttxil-wet, glut-d s usawal-inu. 
eng	kab	A bad word continues to hurt for a very long time. 	Awal yeqqaz, irennu. 
eng	kab	What we cannot fail to deplore are those who deliberately keep their daughters in coercion or worse, send their children to the slaughterhouse. Otherwise, how could we not have kind words to those who, alas, undergo the yoke, are deprived of everything, even die of hunger, are beaten, murdered and cut to pieces to be delivered to the jackals? 	Asḥissef yellan, ɣef tid i iɛemmden ad qqiment yess-nsent deg miḥṛas neɣ ţmekkinent arraw-nsent ar tefrut. Wamma tid, aḥlil, yenneɛtaben, yeţţuḥegfen, yelluẓen, yeţwaten, yeţwanɣan, yeţwagezmen d tiftatin i wuccanen, d acu ara d-nini fell-asent, ma mačči d awal uṛzin? 
eng	kab	They don't want to face their illness. 	Ugin ad qeblen aṭṭan-nsen. 
eng	kab	Is there someone here that speaks English? 	Yella win neɣ tin yettmeslayen Taglizit da? 
eng	kab	My father's a hunter. 	Baba d aṣeggad. 
eng	kab	Not every trip needs souvenirs. 	Mačči yal asikel yeḥwaǧ aktay. 
eng	kab	Here's my phone. 	Atan usawal-inu. 
eng	kab	There isn't the slightest doubt that this person is guilty. 	Ulac akk ccekk d akken amdan-ina d amḍalmu. 
eng	kab	This man is a luminary. 	Argaz-inna d tiɣmert. 
eng	kab	During his lifetime, he was always deprived of date fruits; when he died, he was offered a whole bunch. 	Asmi yedder yectaq atemriw; asmi yemmut, ɛellqen-as aɛerjun. 
eng	kab	My name is Ali. 	Isem-iw Ali. 
eng	kab	You make me want to vomit. 	Tessemɛuquyeḍ-iyi. 
eng	kab	You know Tom, don't you? John's his husband. 	Tesneḍ Tom, neɣ ala? John i d argaz-is. 
eng	kab	There's something that you need to see. 	Tagi d taɣawsa ilaq ad tt-twaliḍ. 
eng	kab	The war was lost. 	Nexser ṭṭrad. 
eng	kab	What is clean will remain so; while what is dirty until the grime, it will be difficult to wash. 	Ayen zeddigen zeddig; ma d ayen yumsen armi d rekku, yewɛer ad yirid. 
eng	kab	Oh yes, thank you! 	Iḥeqqa, dɣa! 
eng	kab	Only the king cannot be captured. The imprisonment of a king, that is, checkmate, means the end of the game. 	Ḥaca agellid kan ur nezmir ad yettwaṭṭef. Tuṭṭfa n ugellid d taggara n wurar. 
eng	kab	My branch was pulled when yours broke. 	Afurk-ik yegla s win-iw. 
eng	kab	More than that is a bit too much. 	Nnig waya, d aqlaqal. 
eng	kab	I don't like going to bed early. 	Ur ḥemmleɣ ara ad ruḥeɣ ad ṭṭṣeɣ zik. 
eng	kab	Tom might've eaten something before he got here. 	Ad tafeḍ s dacu i yečča Tom imi uqbel ad iruḥ ɣer da. 
eng	kab	Whoever has a bee farm expects to be stung. 	Win yeţrebbin tizizwa, iɛemmed i tuqqsa. 
eng	kab	I think we might have a problem. 	Waqila nezmer ad nesɛu kra n wugur. 
eng	kab	Yanni is shopping. 	Yanni yettsewwiq. 
eng	kab	Have you had dinner already? 	Teččiḍ yakan imensi? 
eng	kab	If you see I'm wrong, let's say I didn't say anything. 	Ma twalaḍ ccḍeɣ, am nekk ur nenni. 
eng	kab	Why didn't you explain that to Tom? 	Ayɣer ur as-t-tessfehmeḍ ara i Tom? 
eng	kab	They have what to say. 	Yella d acu ara d-inint. 
eng	kab	Fall turned into winter. 	Lexrif tuɣal d ccetwa. 
eng	kab	People will be free soon. 	Imdanen ur ttɛeṭṭilen ara ad uɣalen d ilelliyen. 
eng	kab	Translate it. 	Ssuqel-it. 
eng	kab	I hate your dog. 	Kerheɣ aqjun-ik. 
eng	kab	Where is she moving? 	Sani i tetteddu? 
eng	kab	The job requires the applicant to have passed the JLPT N2 exam. 	Ilaq ad tesɛeddiḍ akayad n JLPT N2 i wakken ad ak-d-iṣaḥ uxeddim-agi. 
eng	kab	Tom lived next door to us. 	Tom yella yezdeɣ rrif-nneɣ. 
eng	kab	Yanni is very rude. 	Yanni yeqbeḥ aṭas. 
eng	kab	It looked like you weren't having any fun. 	Tbaneḍ-d am akken ur tettneḥraceḍ ara. 
eng	kab	Never give water to a donkey, if he is not thirsty. 	Aɣyul ur neffud, ulayɣer ad t-tḥettmeḍ. 
eng	kab	Tom knew I knew. 	Tom yeẓra ẓriɣ. 
eng	kab	As soon as he started to move, he hit his toe against a stone. 	Akken iṛuḥ ad imḥiḥed, yewwet-it wugur. 
eng	kab	The fridge is bursting with food. 	Yeččur yimsismeḍ d učči. 
eng	kab	Azrou is a beautiful city. 	Aẓṛu d yat n tendimt iɣudan. 
eng	kab	We're out here. 	Aqlaɣ da. 
eng	kab	It's cold inside the fridge. 	Semmeḍ lḥal sdaxel n yimsismeḍ. 
eng	kab	We're all mothers. 	Nekkenti yakk d tiyemmatin. 
eng	kab	Tom's family didn't have much money. 	Tawacult n Tom ur tesɛi ara aṭas n yedrimen. 
eng	kab	I don't like cats, and my brother doesn't either. 	Ur ḥemmleɣ imcac, ur ten-iḥemmel gma. 
eng	kab	Tom was my son. 	Tom yella d mmi. 
eng	kab	If you don't do that, we'll kill you. 	Ma ur tgiḍ ara akken, ad k-nenɣ. 
eng	kab	You know what they want. 	Teẓriḍ d acu i bɣan. 
eng	kab	If everyone was satisfied with himself, there would be no heroes. 	Lemmer i yesteqniε yal wa s yiman-is, ur ttilin ara wasaḍen. 
eng	kab	All of my relatives live in Boston. 	Imawlan-iw akk ttidiren deg Boston. 
eng	kab	Mary always believes me. 	Mary dima tettamen yes-i. 
eng	kab	How long does it take you to walk to school? 	Acḥal n wakud i tettaṭṭafeḍ i wakken ad awḍeḍ ɣer uɣerbaz? 
eng	kab	Tom had money, and I didn't. 	Tom yesɛa iṣuṛdiyen, nekk xaṭi. 
eng	kab	Compassion is an impulse towards those who are touched by misfortune; it brings them a little comfort and neither adds nor takes away from us. 	Aɣiḍi, d aḥulfu ɣur win yenṭeṛren; yeţţak-as ciṭ n ufud yerna ur irennu ur yessenqas i bab-is. 
eng	kab	Do you know who lives here? 	Teẓriḍ anta i izedɣen da? 
eng	kab	If the truth shall kill them, let them die. 	Ma d tidet ara ten-yenɣen, eǧǧ-iten ad mmten. 
eng	kab	Tom fell behind. 	Tom yesɛa leɛḍil. 
eng	kab	Tom cooks even better than me. 	Tom yessewway xir-inu. 
eng	kab	It is quite clear that they are going to make us regress. 	Aɣ-rren ɣur deffir. 
eng	kab	He lent it to me. 	Yerḍel-iyi-t. 
eng	kab	He writes love poems. 	Yettaru isefra n tayri. 
eng	kab	I wake up every morning before the dawn. 	Ttnekareɣ-d yel tanezzayt send tafejrit. 
eng	kab	Never buy what you don't want because it is cheap. 	Ɣur-k ad d-taɣeḍ ayen ur tebɣiḍ imi kan rxis. 
eng	kab	I seem to remember giving you my advice on this. 	Icebba-yi, fkiɣ-ak-d yakan iwellihen ɣef temsalt-a. 
eng	kab	Today is Good Friday. 	Ass-a d asimwas aseɛdi. 
eng	kab	I own this phrase. 	Kesbeɣ tafyirt-a. 
eng	kab	It doesn't bother me either way. 	Ur yenguga ara umeẓẓuɣ-iw. 
eng	kab	Royalty shouldn't exist. 	Tagelda ur ilaq ara ad tili. 
eng	kab	Go ahead, write! And if, more of that, you translated, that would be perfect! 	Arut, ma ad tarum! Asuqel diɣ ternum, d ahdum! 
eng	kab	The bride stands out on her throne. 	Tislit tezxuxem. 
eng	kab	Of course, we'll help you. 	Dayen ibanen, ad k-nɛawen. 
eng	kab	Tom didn't leave anything for me to eat. 	Kra ur yi-t-id-yeǧǧa Tom ad t-ččeɣ. 
eng	kab	Do you know when Tom left Australia? 	Tezriḍ melmi i d-iruḥ Tom seg Ustralya? 
eng	kab	Who told you to let Tom in? 	Aniwa i wen-d-yennan ad as-teǧǧem i Tom ad d-yekcem? 
eng	kab	You know we're here. 	Teẓriḍ da i nella. 
eng	kab	These people will make us backslide. 	Aɣ-rren ɣur deffir. 
eng	kab	Did you calm down? 	Trekdem? 
eng	kab	Can it be reached by bike? 	Yella wamek ara nessiweḍ ɣer dinna s tesnasɣalt? 
eng	kab	It doesn't cost much! 	Am win i k-innan! 
eng	kab	I don't like the house Tom is living in. 	Ur iyi-yeεǧib uxxam anda yezdeɣ Tom. 
eng	kab	Zira is a Kabyle citizen. 	Zira, d taɣarmant taqbaylit. 
eng	kab	Who defended Tom? 	Anwa i d-iḥanin ɣef Tom? 
eng	kab	Tom isn't a tom. 	Tom mačči d amcic. 
eng	kab	"I was really asking myself whether it was bacon or pork," as Michel Rocard said. 	“Tuɣ lliɣ steqsayeɣ deg yiman-iw ma d aqeddid neɣ d aḥelluf”, akken d-inna Michel Rocard. 
eng	kab	Tom ate a banana. 	Yečča Tom tabanant. 
eng	kab	That person is my eldest brother. 	Wihin d gma ameqqran. 
eng	kab	I wonder why he doesn't want to answer my question. 	Wissen acimi i yugi ad iyi-d-yerr ɣef tuttra-w. 
eng	kab	We live near the river. 	Nettidir qrib n wasif. 
eng	kab	Here is a blow that I did not expect! 	Ha-ţ-an a baba tyita! 
eng	kab	They are both from Australia. 	I sin yid-sen n Ustralya. 
eng	kab	If the doctor had come in time, he could have saved Tom's life. 	Amer i d-yewweḍ Tom di lweqt tili yezmer ad d-yessemneɛ tarwiḥt n Tom. 
eng	kab	It can be a long time before those who see only through the eyes of others wipe theirs. It's like they can't look at anything on their own. 	Ay gar-ak ad sefḍen allen-nsen, wid ijeɛɛren s tid n wiyiḍ. Am akken ur sɛin ara swayes ara ssikden. 
eng	kab	We are French teachers. 	Nukni d tiselmadin n tefṛansist. 
eng	kab	The ground began to tremble. 	Lqaɛa tebda tettenhazz. 
eng	kab	I've never heard Tom yell at anyone. 	D leɛmer walaɣ Tom iɛeyyeḍ af albɛaḍ. 
eng	kab	They will set us back a century. 	Aɣ-rren ɣur deffir. 
eng	kab	I don't know how it's going to end. 	Ur ẓriɣ amek ara tefru. 
eng	kab	Do you like curry? 	Tḥemleḍ curry? 
eng	kab	Shut up already! 	Ṭṭef axenfuc-ik! 
eng	kab	In a statement, U.S. President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden offered condolences on behalf of the people of the United States. 	Deg yiwet n tseɣrut, aselway n Marikan Joe Biden d tmeṭṭut-is Jill Biden ssawḍen aɛezzi s yisem n wegdud n yiwunak yeddukklen. 
eng	kab	You must do it for Tom. 	Ilaq ad t-txedmeḍ i Tom. 
eng	kab	Is Ferhat Mehenni's music any good? 	Yelha uẓawan n Ferḥat Mhenni? 
eng	kab	For a fatherless Kabyle child, to show that he accepts his affliction, a saying makes him say: "It does not matter who will marry my mother, I will be his stepson." 	Akken ad d-imel lbext-is ugujil aqbayli ur nesɛi baba-s, yeqqar: "Win tuɣ yemma, nekk d arbib-is." 
eng	kab	Never give water to a donkey, if he is not thirsty. 	Wer yelli wamek ara tḥetmeḍ ad isew, aɣyul ur neffud. 
eng	kab	More than this is a bit much. 	Nnig waya, d aqlaqal. 
eng	kab	Tom headed east. 	Tom yerra s asamar. 
eng	kab	This is the link to a website that I like. 	Atan useɣwen n wesmel i ḥemmleɣ. 
eng	kab	A hurtful word continues to dig like a knife. 	Awal yeqqaz, irennu. 
eng	kab	You mustn't hurt Tom. 	Ur ilaq ara ad tjerḥeḍ Tom. 
eng	kab	Tom is taking the CAE exam next week. 	Ad yesɛeddi Tom akayad n CAE deg yimalas i d-iteddun. 
eng	kab	It has been sold. 	Teţwazzenz. 
eng	kab	In Kabylia they speak Kabyle. 	Deg tmurt n Leqbayel, ttmeslayen taqbaylit. 
eng	kab	Wake up, Tom! We've arrived. 	Aki-d a Tom ! Newweḍ. 
eng	kab	To each his own cereal! Who peas, who lentils! 	Yal wa iteţ tinifin-is! Wa d leɛdes wa d ajilban! 
eng	kab	You have a large stomach. 	Tesɛiḍ akerciw d ameqqran. 
eng	kab	May God preserve your achievements. 	Iḥrez-ak ay tesεiḍ. 
eng	kab	The waterskin is a sheepskin or goat skin sewn in the shape of a bag and serving as a receptacle. 	Taylut, d tacekwiḍt n uglim n yikerri neɣ uqelwac ideg ţarran aman. 
eng	kab	When we were children, the grown-ups carried us astride. 	Asmi meẓziyit, ţawin-aɣ imeqqranen tiɛirquct. 
eng	kab	I deleted the comment I had made under the sentence. 	Kkseɣ awennit-nni i d-ǧǧiɣ s ddaw n tefyirt. 
eng	kab	My heart is heavy, it wants to explode. 	Ul-iw ifelleq, yebɣa ad yeṭṭerḍeq. 
eng	kab	Did you calm down? 	Trekdemt? 
eng	kab	Peace is the full half of life, if not life itself. 	Talwit d azgen n tmeddurt, neɣ d tudert s timmad-is. 
eng	kab	No one remembers when it began. 	Yiwen ur yecfi amek i d-tebda. 
eng	kab	They don't satisfy me at all. 	Ur iyi-ččuren ara yakk tiṭ. 
eng	kab	We do not know if they see themselves as goats, crows or mischievous fairies. 	Ur tefri walan iman-nsen d tiɣeṭṭen neɣ d igerfiwen, neɣ maḍi d yir iwkilen. 
eng	kab	Tom cooks even better than I do. 	Tom yessewway xir-inu. 
eng	kab	That's deep, man. 	Lqay, a winnat. 
eng	kab	Nothing interests you. 	Ulac i kem-id-yecqan. 
eng	kab	He can't open his mouth without saying a swear-word. 	Ur yezmir ara ad d-yeldi aqemmuc-is war ma yenna-d awal icemten. 
eng	kab	You don't know me and I don't know you, either. 	Ur iyi-tessineḍ, ur k-ssineɣ ula d nekki. 
eng	kab	Freedom in need is much better than a poor marriage, since it is the horizon that we aim for head-on that can offer us the basic pillars of hope. 	Yir zwaǧ tif-it tlelli deg tiɣɣubna d leḥṛis, imi igli d win wuɣur neţţazzal s wudem ara ɣ-igen tirigliwin d tigejda n usirem. 
eng	kab	Sorry for what I wrote, because I wanted to retch. 	Surfet-iyi ɣef ayen d-uriɣ, segmi d-mɛuqqeɣ. 
eng	kab	I don't believe Tom's stories about Boston. 	Ur umineɣ ara tiḥkayin n Tom ɣef Boston. 
eng	kab	Tom was the first in his family to become a Canadian citizen. 	Tom d amezwaru deg twacult-is ara yesɛun taɣlent takanadit. 
eng	kab	Before, it used to snow every day in winter. 	Zik-nni yekkat-d wedfel yal ass deg ccetwa. 
eng	kab	What could be more normal for an ox stung by a gadfly to run away; but why did the donkey follow him? 	Yeṭṭukkek uzger wicqa; i uɣyul ayɣer yerna? 
eng	kab	That perfect idiot always wakes me up! 	Yezga yessakay-iyi-d, uberḥelluf! 
eng	kab	Will you shut up already? 	Ad teṭṭefeḍ imi-k? 
eng	kab	Those who know are aware; too bad for those who do not know. 	Win yeẓran yeẓra; aḥlil, wid ur neẓri. 
eng	kab	The book that Tom lent me was interesting. 	Adlis i yi-d-yerḍel Tom d asneknay. 
eng	kab	Every time I see her, my heart jumps out of my chest. 	Yal mi ara tt-waliɣ yetteffeɣ-d wuliw. 
eng	kab	Tom's car was blue. Mary's car was red. 	Takeṛṛust n Tom d azenẓari. Takeṛṛust n Mary d azeggaɣ. 
eng	kab	You really show great intolerance. 	Kečč, ɣur-k taɣennant timɣendeft. 
eng	kab	She put on dark glasses to protect her eyes from the sun. 	Terra nnwaḍer tiberkanin akken ur tt-id-yekkat yiṭij ɣer wallen. 
eng	kab	Our children are the apple of our eye. 	Arraw-nneɣ am memmu n tiṭ-nneɣ. 
eng	kab	Please give me one last chance. 	Ttxil-k efk-iyi telemmiẓt taneggarut. 
eng	kab	You just have to go out well dressed: no one knows how you went to bed. 	Ffeɣ telsiḍ: yiwen ur yeẓri amek tensiḍ. 
eng	kab	A new store opened on our street. 	Teldi-d taḥanut tamaynut deg wezniq-nneɣ. 
eng	kab	His world was gloomy; but he did not know that, for he knew no other world. It was dim-lighted; but his eyes had never had to adjust themselves to any other light. His world was very small. Its limits were the walls of the lair; but as he had no knowledge of the wide world outside, he was never oppressed by the narrow confines of his existence. 	Ddunit-is tella testulles ; maca ur yeẓri ara, acku ddunit-iḍen ur tt-yessin. Yella deg tmedlalast ; maca allen-is tuɣ werǧin qasent tafat-iḍen. Ddunit-is tella mecṭuḥet. Tilisa-s d leḥyuḍ-nni kan n yifri-nni ; maca tamusni ur tt-yesεi ɣef ayen yellan deg berra, werǧin i iḍaq s ddiq i s-d-iḥudden tilin. 
eng	kab	Please tell me how to delete my account. 	Ttxil-k ini-yi-d amek ara kkseɣ amiḍan-inu. 
eng	kab	Why didn't you explain it to Tom? 	Ayɣer ur as-tt-tessefhameḍ ara i Tom? 
eng	kab	We're adults now. 	D imeqqranen i nella tura. 
eng	kab	I gave Tom something to eat. 	Fkiɣ-as i Tom taɣawsa ad tt-yečč. 
eng	kab	Our common language is Esperanto. 	Tutlayt i ɣ-icerken d taspirantit. 
eng	kab	Who told you to let Tom out? 	Aniwa i k-yennan ad as-tanfeḍ i Tom ad iffeɣ? 
eng	kab	I make a list of people I have to see and things I have to do. 	Xedmeɣ-d umuɣ n yemdanen ilaq ad ten-waliɣ d timsal ilaq ad tent-fruɣ. 
eng	kab	We could see the sea from our hotel room. 	Yella yettbin-aɣ-d lebḥer ɣer texxamt-nneɣ deg usensu. 
eng	kab	Do you know who lives here? 	Teẓriḍ anwa i izedɣen da? 
eng	kab	It's the rat race! 	Terki terkuct! 
eng	kab	Tom was trapped inside. 	Tom yella yeḥṣel sdaxel. 
eng	kab	My parents are very religious people. 	Imawlan-iw d imesɣanen mliḥ. 
eng	kab	Those ones will bring us down. 	Aɣ-rren ɣur deffir. 
eng	kab	Who told you to let Tom go? 	Anwa i k-yennan ad as-tanfeḍ i Tom ad iruḥ? 
eng	kab	What can the eyes do if the brain is “blind”? 	Ma yedderɣel wallaɣ, acu ara d-gent wallen? 
eng	kab	Who knows if my eyes will deign to read all of this once they have rested a bit? 	Wissen ahat, allen-iw ad tent-id-terṣel ad d-ɣrent akk annect-a, mara steɛfunt ciṭ? 
eng	kab	It's Tom that Mary wants to talk to. 	D Tom i wumi tebɣa Mary ad tehder. 
eng	kab	No one was injured in the accident. 	Ur yelli win yettwajerḥen deg usehwu-nni. 
eng	kab	Sorry for what I wrote, because I wanted to throw up. 	Surfet-iyi ɣef ayen d-uriɣ, segmi d-mɛuqqeɣ. 
eng	kab	My heart nearly flew out of my mouth. 	Qrib i d-yeffeɣ wul-iw seg yimi. 
eng	kab	It's a village. 	D taddart. 
eng	kab	Those who are completely lost, those who believe they know how to differentiate an idiot from a miser or petty, when there can be a whole world between them, those who do not know that a man lives the same misery as they, they must know that he is missing a half, too. 	Tid ur neẓri anda ţmeḍwayent, tid yesmenyifen aɛluḍ d uqajmar, yerna d illel i yellan gar-asen, tid ur neẓri ula d argaz ur nḥemmel tid wukud yenḥaf, ilaq ad ẓrent ula d neţţa ixuṣs-as wezgen. 
eng	kab	They have already been informed. 	Dayen nnan-asen. 
eng	kab	Here's someone you should discover if you don't already know him. 	Hata win iɣef ilaq ad tnadiḍ ma werεad ur t-tessined. 
eng	kab	What's the difference between badminton and tennis? 	Dacu-t wemgarad yellan ger Badminton d Tennis ? 
eng	kab	I am glad you are fine. 	Awi-d ukan fell-ak. 
eng	kab	Where exactly is Boston? 	Anda i d-tezga Boston swaswa? 
eng	kab	Please bring my phone with you. 	Ttxil-kent, glumt-d s usawal-inu. 
eng	kab	Even though I think I am aware, the fact remains that I awkwardly ventured into a world where not all cats are gray. 	Xas ţanint-iyi tsekrin, kecment-iyi tɣeṭṭen-iw ar yiger n temẓin werǧin neḥḍim. 
eng	kab	Tom doesn't eat chocolate. 	Tom ur itett ara ccakula. 
eng	kab	Hell and damnation! 	Tisuqas, tuccar, lhemm! 
eng	kab	Even if I happen to be contradicted, I said it and swore it. 	Xas ad ḥenteɣ, tuɣ dayen gulleɣ. 
eng	kab	Our common language is French. 	Tutlayt i ɣ-icerken d tafransist. 
eng	kab	How will Tom recognize me? 	Amek ara yi-yeɛqel Tom? 
eng	kab	Who let Tom go? 	Aniwa i s-yeǧǧan i Tom ad iruḥ? 
eng	kab	That isn't at all funny. 	Mačči akk d ayen yesseḍṣayen waya. 
eng	kab	It will scarcely be any easier on the people if the cudgel with which they are beaten is called the people's cudgel. 	Ɣas ad s-semmin aɛekkaz n weɣref ur yettishil ara ugar ɣer uɣref. 
eng	kab	Yanni would never say such a thing. 	D awezɣi ad d-yini Yanni lḥaǧa am tinna. 
eng	kab	Tom saw Mary standing behind John. 	Tom Iwala Mary tbedd sdeffir n John. 
eng	kab	I saw another enter the mosque. 	Walaɣ yiwen nniḍen yekcem ɣer lǧameɛ. 
eng	kab	If you don't come down, I'll be the one going up. 	Ad d-tṣubbeḍ neɣ ad n-aliɣ. 
eng	kab	Tom and Mary both ran away. 	Tom d Mary rewlen i sin. 
eng	kab	In France, there are people who want to use inclusive writing which does not differentiate between men and women. 	Deg Fransa, llan wid iran ad sqedcen tira tasidfant ur nessemgarad ara gar urgaz d tmeṭṭut. 
eng	kab	He's German. 	Netta d Aǧermani. 
eng	kab	Isn't this the first time that's happened? 	Mačči d tagi i d tikkelt tamenzut ara d teḍru? 
eng	kab	There's nothing in that room. 	Ulac dacu i yellan di texxamt-inna. 
eng	kab	She still relies on her parents. 	Mazal tettkel ɣef yimawlan-is. 
eng	kab	Tom didn't eat dinner. 	Tom ur yečči ara imensi. 
eng	kab	Tom was trapped inside. 	Tom yella yewqeɛ sdaxel. 
eng	kab	Leave the door unlocked. 	Anef-as i tewwurt ur teɣliq ara s tsarut. 
eng	kab	Tom would sleep just four hours a night, while Mary, being fond of her sleep, would sleep twelve. 	Tom yezmer ad yeṭṭes ḥaca krad n sswayeɛ, ma d Mary, tḥemmel iḍes, teggan mraw sin n sswayeɛ. 
eng	kab	In the Kabyle villages, it was traditional to lend a room or a small house free of charge to the needy, especially widows and their children, to facilitate their survival. 	Deg tuddar tiqbayliyin, ṛeṭṭlen tujwert, taxxamt neɣ axxam amejṭuḥ i ţaken baṭel, i yigellilen, ladɣa i tuǧǧal akked warra-nsent akken ad zedɣen deg tefses. 
eng	kab	That's not French. 	Aya mačči d tafransist. 
eng	kab	Tom and Mary took sips of their drinks. 	Tom d Mary swan taceribt seg tissit-nsen. 
eng	kab	This is a story-telling. 	D tullma n tedyanin. 
eng	kab	The mystery of life is not a problem to be solved, but a reality to be experienced. 	Adrug n tudert mačči d aɣbel i ilaq ad d-yefru ḥedd, d tilawt iwumi ilaq ad yeg tarmit. 
eng	kab	Somebody told me you'd died. 	Yenna-yi-d yiwen d akken temmuteḍ. 
eng	kab	He's our neighbor. 	D anarag-nneɣ. 
eng	kab	Isn't this the first time that that's happened? 	Mačči d tagi i d tikkelt tamenzut ara d teḍru? 
eng	kab	Play me some Chopin. 	Qeṣṣer-iyi-d san yiwet n Chopin. 
eng	kab	The branch loaded with fruit inevitably bends. 	Taseṭṭa yurwen, tkennu. 
eng	kab	There will still be some work to do. 	Mazel ad yili kra n uxeddim ara nexdem. 
eng	kab	They will make us regress. 	Aɣ-rren ɣur deffir. 
eng	kab	Who'll accompany me? 	Anwa ara yeddun yid-i ? 
eng	kab	I never smile. 	D leɛmer ḍsiɣ. 
eng	kab	Tom sneezed and opened his eyes. 	Tom iɛḍes-d, yelli-d allen-is. 
eng	kab	The taxi will be here soon. 	Tura kan ad d-yaweḍ uṭaksi. 
eng	kab	- What did Tom steal from them? - Some money. 	Dacu i sen-yuker Tom? - Kra n tedrimt. 
eng	kab	This car was bought last year from someone; it had cost a fortune. 	Takerrust-a, teţwaɣ-d ilindi sɣur yiwen, s wacḥal d adrim, d ihdumen. 
eng	kab	I didn't hear anything. 	Ur sliɣ i wacemma. 
eng	kab	A bird in one's hand is worth two in the bush! 	Nnig wakka d nnger! 
eng	kab	That isn't butter. It's margarine. 	Mačči d idi. D margarin. 
eng	kab	In Kabylia, Kabyle is spoken. 	Deg tmurt n Leqbayel, ttmeslayen taqbaylit. 
eng	kab	The salamander is called queen of the water because it camouflages itself and appears when the weather is raining; this is why the Kabyle peasants wait for her to come out to begin plowing. 	Taydest, neɣ tagdest, qqaṛen-as tislit n waman, imi d-iɣelli ugeffur mara d-teffeɣ; daymi ţ-ţarjun imekrazen iqbayliyen akken ad bdun tayerza. 
eng	kab	Don't put too much salt on mine. 	Ur s-xeddem ara aṭas n tisent i tina-inu. 
eng	kab	I hope to see more of your Portuguese sentences here in Tatoeba. 	Ssarmeɣ ad waliɣ ugar n tefyar s tpurtugit dagi deg Tatoeba. 
eng	kab	How much time will you need to repair it? 	Acḥal n wakud i ak-ilaqen akken ad tt-tṣeggmeḍ? 
eng	kab	Tom was my husband. 	Tom yella d argaz-iw. 
eng	kab	Don't let anybody know that I'm here. 	Ur qqar i yiwen da i lliɣ. 
eng	kab	That's not the solution. 	Mačči d ta i d tifrat. 
eng	kab	What a disorder! 	Hatan diɣ tuɣal-d akken tella! 
eng	kab	That's a grapevine. 	Tagi d tafeṛṛant. 
eng	kab	Is it reachable by bike? 	Tzemreḍ ad tawḍeḍ ɣer dinna s tesnasɣalt. 
eng	kab	Tom passed the JLPT N3 exam. 	Tom yesɛedda akayad n JLPT N3. 
eng	kab	You may rely on her. 	Xas ţkel fell-as. 
eng	kab	I think, therefore I drink. 	Ttxemmimeɣ dɣa tesseɣ. 
eng	kab	I need a pen. Could I borrow one? 	Ḥwaǧeɣ imru. Tzemreḍ ad iyi-treḍleḍ yiwen? 
eng	kab	When can I take a break? 	Melmi i zemreɣ ad steɛfuɣ? 
eng	kab	You know Tom, don't you? John's his boyfriend. 	Tesneḍ Tom, neɣ ala? John i d amedakkel-is. 
eng	kab	Could anything have happened to him that he isn't picking up the phone? 	Ad tafeḍ yella dacu i s-yeḍran imi ur d-yerfid ara asawal-ines? 
eng	kab	Tom has already finished the book, so he can give it back to you. 	Tom dayen yekfa idlis-nni s tɣuri, ihi yezmer ad am-t-id-yerr. 
eng	kab	Mary likes you! 	Mary tḥemmel-ik. 
eng	kab	Both Tom and Mary swayed to the music. 	Tom d Mary i sin ceḍḥen i ṣṣut n uẓawan. 
eng	kab	We hope that our young people who are expatriating will come back one day or another, with a force that will enable them to rid themselves of the raptors that have prompted them to leave. 	Ɣef ilmenẓyen yeţnejlayen ɣer tmura-nniḍen, nessaram kan, dulaqrar, ad d-uɣalen s tezmert ara yernun ixabiten i ten-yesrewlen. 
eng	kab	The cat loves meat. 	Amcic iḥemmel cuccu. 
eng	kab	He got angry. 	Yefqeɛ. 
eng	kab	Tom doesn't want them to be there. 	Tom ur ten-yebɣi ara ad ilin da. 
eng	kab	Do you know when Tom left for Australia? 	Tezriḍ melmi i iruḥ Tom ɣer Ustralya? 
eng	kab	I don't look forward to it. 	Ur ḥareɣ ara ad iliɣ. 
eng	kab	Everything that happens to you affects me. 	Afurk-ik yegla s win-iw. 
eng	kab	We went back to our seats. 	Nuɣal ɣer yimukan-nneɣ. 
eng	kab	The more I learn Esperanto, the more I like that language. 	Simal lemmdeɣ taspirantit simmal ḥemmleɣ tutlayt-agi. 
eng	kab	Regarding this, no need to say more. 	Mer am wayenni, ur ilaq usuget. 
eng	kab	Who knows. 	Anwa i yeẓran. 
eng	kab	We're not sick. 	Ur nehlik ara. 
eng	kab	There is no better taste than that of honey. 	Ulac ayen ẓiden am tamemt. 
eng	kab	Nobody asked for their money back. 	Ulac anwa i d-yesteqsin ɣef yedrimen-nsen. 
eng	kab	We are French teachers. 	Nukni d iselmaden n tefṛansist. 
eng	kab	He learned to write numerals before he went to school. 	Yelmed amek ara yaru izwilen qbel ad yekcem ɣer uɣerbaz. 
eng	kab	The Kabyle people are resilient; when they want, they harden more than granite. 	Agdud aqbayli d angeẓwir; mara s-yehwu, yeţţagar asfaḥ taɣert. 
eng	kab	Do you want me to invite you? 	Tebɣiḍ ad k-id-ɛerḍeɣ? 
eng	kab	It doesn't make any difference to me whether you go or stay. 	Ur yelli wemgarad ɣur-i ma truḥeḍ neɣ teqqimeḍ. 
eng	kab	I told Tom that he should take a break. 	Nniɣ-as i Tom ilaq-as ad yawi ussan n westeɛfu. 
eng	kab	This isn't something I'd planned on. 	Mačči d ayen umi heggaɣ iman-iw. 
eng	kab	I decorate the pages of my book with the colors of various flags. 	Ttzewwiqeɣ isebtar n wedlis-iw s teɣmiwin n tεellamin yemgaraden. 
eng	kab	These will bring us down. 	Aɣ-rren ɣur deffir. 
eng	kab	I've never heard Tom yell at anybody. 	D leɛmer walaɣ Tom iɛeyyeḍ af albɛaḍ. 
eng	kab	We're high school teachers. 	Nukni d iselmaden n tesnawit. 
eng	kab	Even if misery does not kill, peace does not nourish either. 	Ur tneqq lmerta, ur tessidir talwit. 
eng	kab	“It is women who preserve our mother tongue. Ah, if they were all of your caliber!" Aksil said to his daughter-in-law. 	“D tilawin i iḥerzen tutlayt-nneɣ tayemmaţ. Ah, mer sɛint akk ṣsedd am kemm!”, i s-inna Aksil i teslit-is. 
eng	kab	Bad siblings are like fringes' wires; if you stretch them too much, they break; if you leave them as they are, they will intertwine. 	Yir tagmaţ am yeɣriṣen; ma tjebdeḍ-ten, ad qerṣen; ma teǧǧiḍ-ten, ad kersen. 
eng	kab	When we are hungry, we do not look at the sauce. 	Laẓ ur yesɛi nnif. 
eng	kab	I would like to make him happy. 	Bɣiɣ ad tt-sferḥeɣ. 
eng	kab	Tom couldn't go. 	Tom ur yezmir ara ad yeddu. 
eng	kab	The boy is sleeping. 	Aqcic-nni yeṭṭes. 
eng	kab	Chocolate is something I often crave. 	Cakula d taɣawsa i beqquɣ aṭas. 
eng	kab	I think that Tom bought the house that he was looking at last week. 	Waqila Tom yuɣ axxam-nni i ɣef yettnadi imalas-nni yeẓrin. 
eng	kab	We lived with Tom. 	Nɛac akked Tom. 
eng	kab	I think, therefore I exist. 	Ttxemmimeɣ dɣa ddreɣ. 
eng	kab	Let well enough alone! 	Nnig wakka d nnger! 
eng	kab	Tom isn't a cat. 	Tom mačči d amcic. 
eng	kab	You won't like this game. 	Ur ak-d-yetteɛǧab ara wurar-agi. 
eng	kab	War is unavoidable. 	Ur nezmir ara ad nerwel i ṭṭrad. 
eng	kab	Prepare the food. 	Heyyi-d tagella. 
eng	kab	Tom wants water. 	Tom yebɣa aman. 
eng	kab	Tom is my spouse. 	Tom i d argaz-iw. 
eng	kab	If Tom hadn't been injured, he might've won. 	Amer ur yettwajreḥ ara Tom tili yezmer yerbeḥ. 
eng	kab	What nerve to have shouted: "Silence!" answered him his brother. 	D acu-t dɣa wagi d-innan: "Susem!", i as-d-yerra gma-s. 
eng	kab	In this ungrateful world, folichons rush headlong, while sane people walk backwards. 	Di ddunit-a yeţɣuṛṛun, ibehlulen ssḍen teddun, ma d uḥdiqen zgan ţkukrun. 
eng	kab	Please just tell me what Tom said. 	Di laɛnaya-m ini-yi-d dacu i m-d-yenna Tom. 
eng	kab	I think that I've seen that guy before. 	Icebbeh-iyi-d rebbi amdan-ina s anda i t-walaɣ. 
eng	kab	Stalin was a bad person. 	Stalin yella d yir amdan. 
eng	kab	Spring has begun. 	Tekcem tefsut. 
eng	kab	The infection has reached the bone. 	Tewweḍ tfidi ɣer yiɣes. 
eng	kab	I sat next to the driver. 	Qqimeɣ ar tama n win yessenharen. 
eng	kab	This virus is a problem all over the world. 	Avirus-a d aɣbel deg umaḍal akk. 
eng	kab	He's got every single one. 	Yesɛa-tent akk. 
eng	kab	I think Tom bought the house he was looking at last week. 	Waqila Tom yuɣ axxam-nni i ɣef yettnadi imalas-nni yeẓrin. 
eng	kab	A little bird told me that. 	D ibellirej iyi-yennan. 
eng	kab	We count on Tom. 	Nettkel ɣef Tom. 
eng	kab	Tom can use whatever he wants. 	Tom yezmer ad yessexdem ayen i s-yehwan. 
eng	kab	That's what amazes me. 	D ayenni i yi-isswhamayen.. 
eng	kab	"Give me your head to eat it and I promise you a big bag of oats," said the lion to the donkey. The latter laughed out loud and replied: "And then who is going to eat the oats?" 	"Efk-iyi aqeṛruy-ik ad t-ččeɣ, ad k-fkeɣ asegres n temẓin", i s-yenna yizem i weɣyul. Winna yeḍṣa-ţ-id, yerra-as: “Anwa imir ara tent-iɛelfen?” 
eng	kab	I'm from Ifrane. 	Nekk seg Ifran 
eng	kab	If we start the story in French, who knows where it will take us? 	Ma nebda-ţ-id s tṛumit, mmelt-aɣ-d anda ara teffeɣ? 
eng	kab	The genet, mongoose and weasel are small carnivorous animals that love to feed on snakes and rodents and sometimes wreak havoc in poultry houses. 	Amucberran (cebbirdu), am yizirdi akked tedɣaɣaţ, d iɣerṣiwen imejṭaḥ imeččeksumen i teţţen izerman akked yiɣerdayen, yeţgen diɣ tikwal afernas deg ikunta n tiyuẓaḍ . 
eng	kab	He fixed his car himself. 	Yexdem tkeṛṛust-is weḥd-s. 
eng	kab	He returned to his bad habits. 	Yuɣal ɣer tid-is. 
eng	kab	The ladybird, being known for its usefulness in the fight against the black aphid, has several names in Kabyle, including "the cow of orphans". 	Tamyigrant (taburqict, mardeqquc), imi teţwassen teţţawi-d tudert i yimɣan mgal buṣeṭṭaf, ɣur-s aṭas n yismawen irbiben s teqbaylit; qqaren-as diɣ “tafunast igujilen”. 
eng	kab	We didn't have evidence. 	Ur nesɛi ara ttbut. 
eng	kab	The early fig grows under the leaf. 	Urgal d tabexsist n ddaw yifer. 
eng	kab	Tom had a tooth pulled last week. 	Yesɛa Tom yiwet n tiɣmest tettwakkes-as ddurt-nni yeẓrin. 
eng	kab	I need to forget, therefore I drink. 	Ḥwaǧeɣ ad ttuɣ, ɣef aya i tesseɣ. 
eng	kab	It's raining in Paris. 	Tekkat lehwa di Pari. 
eng	kab	Give every day the chance to become the most beautiful day of your life. 	Yal ass efk-as tagnit ad yili d ass icebḥen maḍi deg tudert-ik. 
eng	kab	Here he is showing up! 	Hatan iḍall-d! 
eng	kab	Tom thinks that Mary might know the answer. 	Tom yenwa Mary yezmer tessen tiririt. 
eng	kab	My mom told me to go to the market. 	Tenna-iyi yemma ddu ɣer ugadez. 
eng	kab	At last, I managed to find Tom. 	Taggara, qqleɣ armi d-ufiɣ Tom. 
eng	kab	What are your cats' names? 	Dacu-ten yismawen n yemcac-im? 
eng	kab	Tom wears a coat that's too large for him. 	Tom yelsa akebbuḍ meqqer fell-as. 
eng	kab	Not all of those men are doctors. 	Mačči-d akk irgazen-agi d imsujjiyen. 
eng	kab	The North African peoples, like all the peoples of the world, will never be able to unite in the negation of their mutual neighbors. 	Iɣerfan n tefriqt ugafa, am yegduden n umaḍal umḍin, werǧin ad dduklen skud myenkaṛen deg ay gar-asen. 
eng	kab	That's a grapevine. 	Tagi d tajenant. 
eng	kab	What happened here three months ago was truly horrifying. 	Ayen i d-yeḍran dagi kraḍ n wagguren aya yessexlaɛ d ṣṣaḥ. 
eng	kab	How beautiful this ring looks on your hand! 	Ay acḥal i tecbeḥ txatemt-agi ɣef ufus-im. 
eng	kab	I invited Tom. 	Ɛerḍeɣ-d Tom. 
eng	kab	Hay to this bad tool which is, in addition, rickety! 	Yir qerdac, yerna aqluqel. 
eng	kab	That's a grapevine. 	D tafeṛṛant. 
eng	kab	You're making it up. 	Tesnulfuyeḍ-d. 
eng	kab	She wears a brooch. 	Telsa abzim. 
eng	kab	While sowing, the peasants said: “O earth, may you satisfy the plow and the sack of seed." 	Zik mara zerrɛen, qqaren: “Ay akal, awer tḥeccmeḍ tagersa d waylu.” 
eng	kab	As long as we are not aware, they or all of us, our society, theirs, our whole life would be the one that the dogs, wanting no more, would offer to the hyenas. 	M'ur nfaq, m'ur faqent tura, ha-ţ-an timetti-nsent d tin-nneɣ, tameddurt-nneɣ irkulli, segmi i ţ-iɣunza, yefka-ţ weqjun i yiffis. 
eng	kab	Somebody told me that you'd died. 	Yenna-yi-d yiwen d akken temmuteḍ. 
eng	kab	Have you had dinner already? 	Teččamt yakan imensi? 
eng	kab	Tom doesn't know the difference between Monaco and Munich. 	Tom ur yessin ara wemgired yellan ger Monako d Munik. 
