eng	grc_Grek	For Christ is of those who are humble-minded, not of those who exalt themselves over His flock. 	Ταπεινοφρονούντων γάρ ἐστιν ὁ Χριστός, οὐκ ἐπαιρομένων ἐπὶ τὸ ποίμνιον αὐτοῦ. 
eng	grc_Grek	Noah preached repentance and those who obeyed were saved. 	Νῶε ἐκήρυξεν μετάνοιαν, καὶ οἱ ὑπακούσαντες ἐσώθησαν. 
eng	grc_Grek	As silver and gold are tried in a furnace, so are choice hearts with the Lord. 	ὥσπερ δοκιμάζεται ἐν καμίνῳ ἄργυρος καὶ χρυσὸς, οὕτως ἐκλεκταὶ καρδίαι παρὰ Κυρίῳ. 
eng	grc_Grek	If any man have an ear, let him hear. 	Εἴ τις ἔχει οὖς, ἀκουσάτω. 
eng	grc_Grek	Did I not always respect you as a sister? 	οὐ πάντοτέ σε ἐνετράπην ὡς ἀδελφήν; 
eng	grc_Grek	Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. 	Οὐ λήμψεται ἔτι ἔθνος ἐπ᾽ ἔθνος μάχαιραν καὶ οὐ μὴ μάθωσιν ἔτι πολεμεῖν 
eng	grc_Grek	And if you wish to learn what the doctrines of Christianity are, appoint me a day, and thou shalt hear them. 	Εἰ δὲ μαθεῖν θέλεις τὸν τοῦ Χριστιανισμοῦ λόγον, δὸς ἡμέραν, καὶ ἄκουσον. 
eng	grc_Grek	And while he was praying, a vision presented itself to him three days before he was taken; and, behold, the pillow under his head seemed to him on fire. 	Καὶ προσευχόμενος ἐν ὀπτασίᾳ γέγονε πρὸ τριῶν ἡμερῶν τοῦ συλληφθῆναι αὐτόν· καὶ εἶδεν προσκεφάλαιον αὐτοῦ ὑπὸ πυρὸς κατακαιόμενον. 
eng	grc_Grek	Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. 	πορευθέντες μαθητεύσατε πάντα τὰ ἔθνη, βαπτίζοντες αὐτοὺς εἰς τὸ ὄνομα τοῦ Πατρὸς καὶ τοῦ Υἱοῦ καὶ τοῦ Ἁγίου Πνεύματος, 
eng	grc_Grek	He lived with Thrasybulus the tyrant of Miletus, as we are informed by Minyas. 	συνεβίω δὲ καὶ Θρασυβούλῳ τῷ Μιλησίων τυράννῳ, καθά φησι Μινύης. 
eng	grc_Grek	Hieronymus also says that he measured the Pyramids: watching their shadow, and calculating when they were of the same size as that was. 	ὁ δὲ Ἱερώνυμος καὶ ἐκμετρῆσαί φησιν αὐτὸν τὰς πυραμίδας ἐκ τῆς σκιᾶς, παρατηρήσαντα ὅτε ἡμῖν ἰσομεγέθης ἐστίν. 
eng	grc_Grek	Let no man deceive himself: if any one be not within the altar, he is deprived of the bread of God. 	Μηδεὶς πλανάσθω· ἐὰν μὴ τις ᾖ ἐντὸς τοῦ θυσιαστηρίου, ὑστερεῖται τοῦ ἄρτου τοῦ θεοῦ. 
eng	grc_Grek	Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. 	ἀμὴν λέγω ὑμῖν, ἐφ’ ὅσον ἐποιήσατε ἑνὶ τούτων τῶν ἀδελφῶν μου τῶν ἐλαχίστων, ἐμοὶ ἐποιήσατε. 
eng	grc_Grek	He who brought me up sold me to a certain Rhoda at Rome. 	Ὁ θρέψας με πέπρακέν με Ῥόδῃ τινὶ εἰς Ῥώμην. 
eng	grc_Grek	The desire of wickedness came up in your heart. 	Ἐπὶ τὴν καρδίαν σου ἀνέβη ἡ ἐπιθυμία τῆς πονηρίας. 
eng	grc_Grek	And he went round about the villages, teaching. 	Καὶ περιῆγε τὰς κώμας κύκλῳ διδάσκων. 
eng	grc_Grek	Why do you charge me falsely, Lady, with these wicked and impure things? 	τί μου καταψεύδῃ, ὦ γύναι, τὰ πονηρὰ ταῦτα καὶ ἀκάθαρτα; 
eng	grc_Grek	And now, children, love the truth, and it shall preserve you. 	Καὶ νῦν, τέκνα, τὴν ἀλήθειαν ἀγαπήσατε, καὶ αὔτη φυλάξεται ὑμᾶς. 
eng	grc_Grek	Reason directs those who are truly pious and philosophical to honour and love only what is true, declining to follow traditional opinions, if these be worthless. 	Τοὺς κατὰ ἀλήθειαν εὐσεβεῖς καὶ φιλοσόφους μόνον τἀληθὲς τιμᾶν καὶ στέργειν ὁ λόγος ὑπαγορεύει, παραιτουμένους δόξαις παλαιῶν ἐξακολουθεῖν ἄν φαῦλαι ὦσιν. 
eng	grc_Grek	And he never had any teacher except during the time that he went to Egypt, and associated with the priests. 	Οὐδεὶς δὲ αὐτοῦ καθηγήσατο, πλὴν ὅτι εἰς Αἴγυπτον ἐλθὼν τοῖς ἱερεῦσι συνδιέτριψεν. 
eng	grc_Grek	If anyone has an ear, let him hear. 	Εἴ τις ἔχει οὖς, ἀκουσάτω. 
