eng	grc_Grek	According to Thucydides, the Peloponnesian war was the war between the Peloponnesians and the Athenians, who fought against each other, the one in 431 BC being fought in 431 BC and the other in 404 BC. 	Κατὰ τὸν Θουκυδίδη, ὁ Πελοποννησιακὸς πόλεμος ἔφυ ὁ πόλεμος τῶν Πελοποννησίων καὶ Ἀθηναίων, οἳ ἐπολέμησαν πρὸς ἀλλήλους, ὁ μὲν 431 π.Χ. ἀρξάμενος 404 π.Χ. παυσάμενος. 
eng	grc_Grek	Thucydides (born before 454 BC, died 399-396 BC) wrote the Peloponnesian War in the fifth century BC. 	Ὁ Θουκυδίδης (ἐγένετο πρὸ τοῦ ἔτους 454 π.Χ., ἀπέθανε περὶ 399 -396 π.Χ.) πέμπτου αἰῶνος π.Χ. συνέγραψε τὸν Πελοποννησιακὸν Πόλεμον. 
eng	grc_Grek	Over 1,910 records. 	Πλείω τῶν 1,910 ἐγγραφῶν. 
eng	grc_Grek	Hesiod was an ancient epic poet. 	Ὁ Ἡσίοδος ἦν ἀρχαῖος ποιητὴς ἐπικός. 
eng	grc_Grek	Europe (often called the "Old Continent") is one of the seven continents occupying the western end of Eurasia. Therefore, there is no true distinction between Asia and Europe except that of the thinker. This division was first made by the ancient Greeks. The west is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean, the north by the Arctic Ocean, the south by the Mediterranean Sea, and the east by Asia. 	Ἡ Εὐρώπη (καλουμένη γὰρ συχνῶς καὶ "Γηραιὰ Ἤπειρος") ἐστὶ μία τῶν ἑπτὰ ἤπειρων ἣ κατοικεῖ τῇ ἑσπέρᾳ τῆς Εὐρασίας. Ἐτεὸν γέ, οὐκ ἐστὶ ἀληθὴς ὅρος μεταξὺ τῆς Ἀσίας καὶ τῆς Εὐρώπης πλὴν ὅτι τοῦ νομίζοντος. Ἥδε ἡ διαίρεσις πρῶτον ἐποιήθη ὑπὸ τῶν ἀρχαίων Ἑλλήνων. Γειτνιάει τῇ ἑσπέρᾳ τῷ Ἀτλαντικῷ Ὠκεανῷ, τῇ ἄρκτῳ τῷ Ἀρκτικῷ Ὠκεανῷ, τῷ νότῷ τῇ Μεσογείῳ Θαλάσσῃ καὶ τῇ ἀνατολῇ τῇ Ἀσίᾳ. 
eng	grc_Grek	Polybius the Magnificent wrote a history of the city of Rome in the second century BC. 	Ὀ Πολύβιος ὁ Μεγαλοπολίτης συνέγραψε ἱστορίαν τῆς πόλεως Ῥώμη τῷ δευτέρῳ αἰῶνι π.Χ. 
eng	grc_Grek	Philosophy and Social Sciences. 	Φιλοσοφία καὶ Κοινωνικαὶ Ἐπιστῆμαι. 
eng	grc_Grek	Greetings to you who come to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia of education in Greek. 	Χαίρετε οἱ ἐν τῇ Οὐικιπαιδείᾳ ἐλθόντες, τῇ ἐλευθέρᾳ ἐγκυκλίῳ παιδείᾳ ἑλληνιστί. 
eng	grc_Grek	Anthropology is the scientific demand for social patterns in human cultures. 	Ἡ Ἀνθρωπολογία ἐπιστημονικὴ ζήτησις προτύπων κοινῶν ἐν τοῖς ἀνθρωπίνοις πολιτισμοῖς ἐστιν. 
