eng	eng	I suppose they are coming. 	I suppose they're coming. 
eng	eng	I don't know anybody who speaks French. 	I don't know anyone who speaks French. 
eng	eng	He's whistling through his navel. 	He's whistling through his arse. 
eng	eng	Tom's downstairs, right? 	Tom is downstairs, right? 
eng	eng	After she lost weight, she felt better. 	After losing weight, she felt better. 
eng	eng	How many rooms has your flat got? 	How many rooms does your flat have? 
eng	eng	It is you who is to blame. 	It's you who's to blame. 
eng	eng	I knew that Tom didn't want to be the next one to do that. 	I knew Tom didn't want to be the next one to do that. 
eng	eng	I will contact you soon. 	I'll contact you soon. 
eng	eng	That team's supporters are really fanatical. 	The fans of that team are very fanatical. 
eng	eng	I have never drawn anything in my life. 	I've never drawn anything in my life. 
eng	eng	We're kohanim. 	We're kohens. 
eng	eng	Tom is a top. 	Tom's a top. 
eng	eng	I'm on break. 	I'm on a break. 
eng	eng	I will not let you down again. 	I won't let you down again. 
eng	eng	I am not a troll. 	I'm not a troll. 
eng	eng	If I knew the truth, I would tell you. 	If I knew the truth, I'd tell you. 
eng	eng	Here is a gentleman whom by chance I met, Upon agreement from us to his liking, Will undertake to woo curst Katharine. 	Here is a gentleman whom I have met by chance and who agrees to court the cursed Katharine. 
eng	eng	I want the same jacket as you are wearing. 	I want the same jacket as you're wearing. 
eng	eng	I'm pretty sure Tom's happy in Australia. 	I'm pretty sure Tom is happy in Australia. 
eng	eng	And what have you got planned for the weekend? 	And what do you have planned for the weekend? 
eng	eng	When I was a child, I often did that. 	I often did that when I was a child. 
eng	eng	Tom bought an electric bike. 	Tom bought an electric bicycle. 
eng	eng	There is a lot of rubbish on the streets. 	There is a lot of garbage on the streets. 
eng	eng	Why is everyone looking at Tom? 	Why's everyone looking at Tom? 
eng	eng	Who could have stolen it from Tom? 	Who could've stolen it from Tom? 
eng	eng	You're a wet. 	You're a drip. 
eng	eng	There is blood in my faeces. 	There's blood in my faeces. 
eng	eng	Come and see me whenever you are free. 	Come and see me whenever you're free. 
eng	eng	Suppose I am talking about you. 	Say I am talking about you. 
eng	eng	What you are saying doesn't make sense. 	What you're saying doesn't make sense. 
eng	eng	It has been snowing on and off. 	It's been snowing on and off. 
eng	eng	Better to bend than break. 	Better to bend than to break. 
eng	eng	She had the blues. 	She was feeling down in the dumps. 
eng	eng	Snap! 	Click! 
eng	eng	Sike! 	Fooled you! 
eng	eng	I have been raped. 	I've been raped. 
eng	eng	That's one for the books. 	That's a turnup for the book. 
eng	eng	She walked about in search of the dress. 	She walked around searching for the dress. 
eng	eng	What's for sale? 	What is for sale? 
eng	eng	I am feeling pretty safe. 	I'm feeling pretty safe. 
eng	eng	Tom already knows that we're best friends. 	Tom already knows we're best friends. 
eng	eng	She had the blues. 	She was in the doldrums. 
eng	eng	There is a room where children play. You can take your child there. 	There is a children's playroom. You can take your child there. 
eng	eng	His mustache is grayer than his beard. 	His moustache is greyer than his beard. 
eng	eng	Nobody wanted to leave. 	No one wanted to leave. 
eng	eng	He's a cereal killer. 	He is a cereal killer. 
eng	eng	Now that you mention it, I have not seen Tom recently. 	Now that you mention it, I haven't seen Tom recently. 
eng	eng	That's not what you told me last week. 	That isn't what you told me last week. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom knows you know how to do that. 	I know Tom knows that you know how to do that. 
eng	eng	I'm sorry that I wasn't as careful as I should've been. 	I'm sorry that I wasn't as careful as I should have been. 
eng	eng	As far as Tom's concerned, it's quantity, not quality, which counts. 	As far as Tom is concerned, it's quantity, not quality, which counts. 
eng	eng	What is the use of reading magazines? 	What's the use of reading magazines? 
eng	eng	You have no right to say that to her. 	You've got no right to say that to her. 
eng	eng	Tom thought it would take a little longer. 	Tom thought that it would take a little longer. 
eng	eng	I am tired of the work. 	I'm tired of the work. 
eng	eng	Why is it so expensive? 	Why's it so expensive? 
eng	eng	This won't go unpunished. 	This will not go unpunished. 
eng	eng	Didn't Tom know that that would happen? 	Didn't Tom know that would happen? 
eng	eng	Tom doesn't want to work after he is 60. 	Tom doesn't want to work after he's sixty. 
eng	eng	Most of us thought it was a good plan. 	Most of us thought that it was a good plan. 
eng	eng	I have been shaking. 	I've been shaking. 
eng	eng	Michael the Guǎngzhōu Man and I were discussing clothing of different ethnic groups. We both noticed that Chinese wear modern Western clothes, generally. He mentioned the long dress that Vietnamese women still wear—the "áo dài" as it is called. East Indians steadfastly wear their saris and robes. I said that I detest the Western business suit attire with the choking tie. 	Michael the Guǎngzhōu Man and I were discussing clothing of different ethnic groups. We both noticed that Chinese wore modern Western clothes, generally. He mentioned the long dress that Vietnamese women still wore—the "áo dài" as it was called. East Indians steadfastly wore their saris and robes. I said that I detested the Western business suit attire with the choking tie. 
eng	eng	I finally got past the outer gates. 	Finally I passed the outer gates. 
eng	eng	I'd like a room with a view of the sea. 	I'd like a room with a sea view. 
eng	eng	It is up to you whether to buy it or not. 	It's up to you whether to buy it or not. 
eng	eng	Such a thing will bring you only misery. 	Such a thing will only bring you misery. 
eng	eng	I'm looking forward to seeing her again. 	I can't wait to see her again. 
eng	eng	It’s about 500 metres from here. 	Nó cách đây khoảng 500 mét. 
eng	eng	Until we know the constituent elements of human intelligence, we cannot create artificial intelligence. 	Until we know the building blocks of human intelligence, we cannot create artificial intelligence. 
eng	eng	I have had this pain before. 	I've had this pain before. 
eng	eng	She is practicing. 	She is practising. 
eng	eng	I'm going to give Tom my old tent. 	I'm going to give my old tent to Tom. 
eng	eng	Turn 360 degrees and walk away. 	Turn three hundred sixty degrees and walk away. 
eng	eng	I will not sleep, Hortensio, till I see her. 	I won't sleep, Hortensio, until I see her. 
eng	eng	Why can't you explain ? 	Why can't you explain? 
eng	eng	I will write you back soon. 	I'll write you back soon. 
eng	eng	The two cities are not far from each other. 	The two cities aren't far from each other. 
eng	eng	We will have a math class tomorrow. 	We'll have a math class tomorrow. 
eng	eng	I have had more than enough. 	I've had more than enough. 
eng	eng	She got sick, so she didn't go to school. 	Because she got sick, she didn't go to school. 
eng	eng	Tom stole Mary's necklace. 	Tom has stolen Mary's necklace. 
eng	eng	Nothing doing! 	No dice! 
eng	eng	He took a fancy to her. 	She took his fancy. 
eng	eng	I get emotional sometimes after a nice game of chess. 	Sometimes I cry after a great game of chess. 
eng	eng	He's running quite fast through the hallway. 	He's running quite quickly through the hallway. 
eng	eng	I had never been late for school before. 	I'd never been late for school before. 
eng	eng	I didn't know that Tom knew when Mary had to do that. 	I didn't know Tom knew when Mary had to do that. 
eng	eng	Go see what's going on! 	Go and see what is going on! 
eng	eng	You will be informed. 	You'll be informed. 
eng	eng	I'm better on my own. 	I am better on my own. 
eng	eng	The intention was that Tom would be our lawyer. 	It was intended that Tom would be our lawyer. 
eng	eng	Someone stole Tom's laptop. 	Somebody stole Tom's laptop. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom knows Mary doesn't know how to do that. 	I know Tom knows that Mary doesn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	He was totally out. 	He was drunk as a lord. 
eng	eng	He could have overslept. 	He might have overslept. 
eng	eng	The wine is in the market. 	The wine is on the market. 
eng	eng	I think you shouldn't have gone there. 	I think that you shouldn't have gone there. 
eng	eng	I am a member of the French Communist Party. 	I'm a member of the PCF. 
eng	eng	Toodle-oo! 	Tara! 
eng	eng	I have given up on that case. 	I've given up on that case. 
eng	eng	What is your opinion on onions? 	What's your opinion on onions? 
eng	eng	I'm in the swimming pool. 	I'm in the pool. 
eng	eng	You will thank Tom one day. 	You'll thank Tom one day. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he thought he might be able to win. 	Tom said he thought he might be able to win. 
eng	eng	I assume you don't want to go swimming with us. 	I assume that you don't want to go swimming with us. 
eng	eng	This swimming pool is three metres deep. 	This swimming pool is three meters deep. 
eng	eng	I'm beat. 	I'm tuckered out. 
eng	eng	Those towels should be clean. 	That towel should be clean. 
eng	eng	My hand is so cold that I can't feel it any more. 	My hand is so cold I can't feel it anymore. 
eng	eng	I have a big penis. 	I have a big banana. 
eng	eng	Here you are, Mary! 	Here you go, Mary! 
eng	eng	He's a grammar Nazi. 	He is a grammar Nazi. 
eng	eng	The one charm about the past is that it is the past. 	The one charm of the past is that it is the past. 
eng	eng	She has two sisters. Both of them live in Kyoto. 	She has two sisters. Both live in Kyoto. 
eng	eng	Tom said Mary has been told not to do that again. 	Tom said that Mary has been told not to do that again. 
eng	eng	It is cool after the rain. 	It's cool after the rain. 
eng	eng	Whose child is it? 	Whose kid is it? 
eng	eng	I don't have time for anything. 	I have no time for a single thing. 
eng	eng	I try to stay on softer ground when running. 	I try to stick to softer ground when I run. 
eng	eng	I thought that maybe Tom wouldn't need to do that. 	I thought maybe Tom wouldn't need to do that. 
eng	eng	Choose colors that go well together. 	Choose colours that go well together. 
eng	eng	The gathering was cancelled because of rain. 	The gathering was canceled because of rain. 
eng	eng	Great silence prevailed. 	There was a great silence. 
eng	eng	I would've done that by myself if I'd known how. 	I would have done that by myself if I'd known how. 
eng	eng	My nose is stuffy. 	My nose is blocked up. 
eng	eng	Tom caught more fish than anybody else did. 	Tom caught more fish than anyone else did. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he thought he might be able to win. 	Tom said that he thought that he might be to able win. 
eng	eng	Don't tell anyone you saw me here. 	Don't tell anybody you saw me here. 
eng	eng	It is rather warm today. 	It's rather warm today. 
eng	eng	I have broken something. 	I've broken something. 
eng	eng	It is nice and cool here. 	It's nice and cool here. 
eng	eng	Am I correct in assuming you wish you hadn't done that? 	Am I correct in assuming you wish that you hadn't done that? 
eng	eng	Psych! 	Fooled you! 
eng	eng	I know that Tom knows that you know how to do that. 	I know Tom knows that you know how to do that. 
eng	eng	Everything in good time. 	Don't cross your bridges before you get to them. 
eng	eng	It is true; she is a rare beauty. 	It is true: she is a rare beauty. 
eng	eng	I saw a lot of things while I was there. 	I saw many things by being there. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom isn't through doing that yet. 	I know Tom isn't through doing that yet. 
eng	eng	Babies cry when they are hungry. 	Babies cry when they're hungry. 
eng	eng	There's still a chance that's going to happen. 	There's still a chance that that's going to happen. 
eng	eng	Flaming heck! 	For fucks sake! 
eng	eng	You've already eaten cake. 	You have already eaten cake. 
eng	eng	I'm bloody freezing. 	I'm perishing. 
eng	eng	You know Tom doesn't like to do that, don't you? 	You know that Tom doesn't like to do that, don't you? 
eng	eng	He's running quite fast through the school. 	He's running quite quickly through the school. 
eng	eng	I'll give these books to anyone who wants them. 	I'll give these books to anybody who wants them. 
eng	eng	A bishop can never end up on an opposite-colored square. 	A bishop can never end up on an opposite-coloured square. 
eng	eng	On the tenth of next month, they will have been married for twenty years. 	On the tenth of next month, they'll have been married for twenty years. 
eng	eng	That word's not in the dictionary. 	That word isn't in the dictionary. 
eng	eng	So are you saying he's an artist? 	So what are you saying? He's an artist? 
eng	eng	I have a big penis. 	I have a big cock. 
eng	eng	I am learning Uyghur. 	I'm learning Uyghur. 
eng	eng	Contact me at the above address. 	Contact me at the address above. 
eng	eng	You're really paying too much for that. 	You're seriously paying too much for that. 
eng	eng	He was totally out. 	He was blind drunk. 
eng	eng	Nemesio isn't scared of scorpions. In fact, he gets along really well with them. 	Nemesio isn't afraid of scorpions. In fact, he gets along pretty well with them. 
eng	eng	Cheese is my favourite food. 	Cheese is my favorite food. 
eng	eng	I knew that Tom didn't know anybody who did that. 	I knew Tom didn't know anybody who did that. 
eng	eng	She has triskaphobia, the fear of the number three. 	She has triphobia, the fear of the number three. 
eng	eng	Will you please help me? Yes, with pleasure. 	"Will you please help me?" "Yes, with pleasure." 
eng	eng	Tom said he thought that he might be able to win. 	Tom said that he thought that he might be to able win. 
eng	eng	I have a big penis. 	I have a big joystick. 
eng	eng	Some politicians aren't so dumb as you believe. 	Some politicians aren't as dumb as you believe. 
eng	eng	That is yet to be decided. 	That's yet to be decided. 
eng	eng	How did people know that we weren't Canadians? 	How did people know we weren't Canadians? 
eng	eng	I have never had this pain before. 	I've never had this pain before. 
eng	eng	I hope that we didn't make the wrong decision. 	I hope we didn't make the wrong decision. 
eng	eng	It was a sensational victory, but in order to be crowned champions, the team still has to defeat some really tough opponents. 	This victory was sensational, but to be champion the team will still have to beat very difficult opponents. 
eng	eng	He finally gave up the ghost. 	He finally went the way of all flesh. 
eng	eng	Just promise me that you won't do it again. 	Just promise me you won't do it again. 
eng	eng	A few people were ice-skating. 	A few people were ice skating. 
eng	eng	Nobody felt like leaving. 	No one felt like leaving. 
eng	eng	That team's fans are very fanatical. 	The fans of that team are very fanatical. 
eng	eng	I think their ideas are a lot of garbage. 	I think their ideas are a lot of nonsense. 
eng	eng	They're not like you. 	They aren't like you. 
eng	eng	How many pictures are you planning to take? 	How many pictures are you planning on taking? 
eng	eng	Do not forget to meet me at the station. 	Don't forget to meet me at the station. 
eng	eng	I guess that you like cats, don't you? 	I guess that you like cats, right? 
eng	eng	We will have a music contest soon. 	We'll have a music contest soon. 
eng	eng	Tom cannot be accused of narrow-mindedness. 	Tom can't be accused of narrow-mindedness. 
eng	eng	My mother bundled me in the warmest clothes she could find. 	My mom wrapped me in the warmest clothes she could find. 
eng	eng	It's really a good thing that you were able to be here today. 	It's really a good thing you were able to be here today. 
eng	eng	I think you shouldn't have gone to Boston. 	I think that you shouldn't have gone to Boston. 
eng	eng	It is almost ten o'clock. 	It's almost ten o'clock. 
eng	eng	We will push this back to later; it's not urgent. 	We'll leave that for later; it's not urgent. 
eng	eng	The path was not clearly marked. 	The path wasn't clearly marked. 
eng	eng	What is the thickness of that novel? 	What is that novel's thickness? 
eng	eng	Do not contribute to Tatoeba. 	Don't contribute to Tatoeba. 
eng	eng	I ask for help from you. 	I ask you for help. 
eng	eng	There's one thing that is bothering me. 	There's one thing that's bothering me. 
eng	eng	I've got to put my glasses on. I just can't see them. 	I need to put my glasses on. I just can't see them. 
eng	eng	He was to succeed to the throne. 	He was going to ascend to the throne. 
eng	eng	I would've told you how to do that if you'd asked me. 	I would've told you how to do that if you'd asked me to. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom didn't want to be the next one to do that. 	I know Tom didn't want to be the next one to do that. 
eng	eng	I don't smoke at all. 	I never smoke. 
eng	eng	I feel on top of the world! 	I feel great! 
eng	eng	Go and screw yourself! 	Fuck yourself! 
eng	eng	I told Tom I wouldn't go shopping with him. 	I told Tom that I wouldn't go shopping with him. 
eng	eng	Am I correct in assuming you wish that you hadn't done that? 	Am I correct in assuming that you wish that you hadn't done that? 
eng	eng	I doubt that Tom really intended to do that. 	I doubt Tom really intended to do that. 
eng	eng	Tom has an ax to grind. 	Tom has an axe to grind. 
eng	eng	There is blood in my vomit. 	There's blood in my vomit. 
eng	eng	I am a member of the French Communist Party. 	I'm a member of the French Communist Party. 
eng	eng	I've never loved anyone as much as I love Tom. 	I've never loved anybody as much as I love Tom. 
eng	eng	Happy Nowruz! 	Happy Newroz! 
eng	eng	I'm poorly. 	I feel poorly. 
eng	eng	I'm a sentence. 	I am a sentence. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom knows you know how to do that. 	I know Tom knows you know how to do that. 
eng	eng	I would like to buy a dress. 	I'd like to buy a dress. 
eng	eng	Who is being prosecuted? 	Who's being prosecuted? 
eng	eng	How do you turn on this computer? 	How do you turn this computer on? 
eng	eng	I do not believe in this theory. 	I don't believe this theory. 
eng	eng	"Which party is in power?" "One that pretends that its members share Christian values." "And with which party do you want to replace them?" "A coalition that pretends to support gay rights." 	"What party is in power?" "One that pretends that its members share Christian values." "And with what party do you want to replace them?" "A coalition that pretends to support gay rights." 
eng	eng	Word on the street is that he'll be back next month. 	Word is that he will be back next month. 
eng	eng	The grass is always greener in the neighbor's yard. 	The grass is always greener in the neighbor's garden. 
eng	eng	The cinema was completely full. 	The movie theater was completely full. 
eng	eng	Well, that cleared it all up. 	Well, that cleared everything up. 
eng	eng	Tom couldn't find anyone to go with him, so he went by himself. 	Tom couldn't find anybody to go with him, so he went by himself. 
eng	eng	I am poor at swimming. 	I'm poor at swimming. 
eng	eng	They have never been heard of since. 	They've never been heard of since. 
eng	eng	I am not expecting details. 	I'm not expecting details. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he knew that it was Mary who did that. 	Tom said he knew it was Mary who did that. 
eng	eng	You aren't consistent. 	You're not consistent. 
eng	eng	Flaming heck! 	Flaming hell! 
eng	eng	Tom thinks that Mary is the woman for him. 	Tom thinks Mary is the woman for him. 
eng	eng	It's a mixed bag. 	It's a pretty mixed bag. 
eng	eng	I'm sorry Tom wasn't able to attend the conference. 	I'm sorry that Tom wasn't able to attend the conference. 
eng	eng	The company claims the delay was unintentional. 	The company claims that the delay was unintentional. 
eng	eng	I am bleeding from my anus. 	I'm bleeding from my anus. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom knows that you know how to do that. 	I know Tom knows you know how to do that. 
eng	eng	He is a cuck. 	He's a cuck. 
eng	eng	I put on a sweater because I was cold. 	I put a sweater on because I was cold. 
eng	eng	Did you put a chip in the dog? 	Did you microchip the dog? 
eng	eng	I have to admit I was wrong. 	I have to admit that I was wrong. 
eng	eng	I hear voices when I am alone. 	I hear voices when I'm alone. 
eng	eng	This is no time to be squeamish. 	This is not the time to be squeamish. 
eng	eng	Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings comes forth the truth. 	Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings. 
eng	eng	He is too young for me. 	He's too young for me. 
eng	eng	Paul is one of the students taking part in the chess tournament. 	Paul is one of the students who are taking part in the chess tournament. 
eng	eng	You'd better use some clothes pegs, otherwise the wind will blow the washing away. 	You'd better use some clothespins, otherwise the wind will blow the laundry away. 
eng	eng	She has a camel toe. 	She has a cameltoe. 
eng	eng	That's her M.O. 	That is her modus operandi. 
eng	eng	Poachers occasionally wander on to Ziri's property. 	Poachers occasionally wander onto Ziri's property. 
eng	eng	I have seen that somewhere. 	I've seen that somewhere. 
eng	eng	Tom told me he's quit taking his medication. 	Tom told me that he's quit taking his medication. 
eng	eng	Can you take your stuff off the table? 	Can you take your things off the table? 
eng	eng	This is a post office and that is a bank. 	This is a post office and that's a bank. 
eng	eng	He's running quite fast through the hallway. 	He's running quite fast through the corridor. 
eng	eng	I hope we don't get into trouble for doing this. 	I hope that we don't get into trouble for doing this. 
eng	eng	I am poor at drawing. 	I'm poor at drawing. 
eng	eng	If you are free, come around to see me. 	If you're free, come around to see me. 
eng	eng	I think it's possible that Tom may come. 	I think it's possible Tom may come. 
eng	eng	How long have you been at it? 	How long have you been going at it? 
eng	eng	I'm not sure if I translated this correctly. 	I'm not sure whether I translated this correctly. 
eng	eng	As far as Tom is concerned, it is quantity, not quality, that counts. 	As far as Tom is concerned, it's quantity, not quality, that counts. 
eng	eng	Hating someone is so easy. 	It's so easy to hate someone. 
eng	eng	When one occasionally does not forget about work that is undesirable. 	Sometimes you have to forget about work. 
eng	eng	The housing market in the Netherlands is in bad shape. 	The housing market in the Netherlands is in a bad way. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom isn't a very good listener. 	I know Tom isn't a very good listener. 
eng	eng	I didn't know that Tom wasn't the one who did that. 	I didn't know Tom wasn't the one who did that. 
eng	eng	I put salt and pepper into the soup. 	I put salt and pepper in the soup. 
eng	eng	The dancers are wearing white tights. 	The dancers are wearing white pantyhose. 
eng	eng	There is a full moon out tonight. 	There's a full moon out tonight. 
eng	eng	She had the blues. 	She was on a downer. 
eng	eng	Do you think that we'd be able to get access to Mary's personal invoices? 	Do you think that we could get access to Mary's personal invoices? 
eng	eng	Tom wasn't the one who told Mary that she didn't have to do that. 	Tom wasn't the one who told Mary she didn't have to do that. 
eng	eng	I know that she can do it. 	I know she can do it. 
eng	eng	I promised I would help. 	I promised I'd help. 
eng	eng	He got the wind up. 	He had the collywobbles. 
eng	eng	I have finished my assignment. 	I've finished my assignment. 
eng	eng	Tom thought he was all that and a bag of chips. 	Tom thought he was special. 
eng	eng	Why haven't you tried to call him? 	Why have you not tried to call him? 
eng	eng	Those two are quarrelling again. 	Those two are quarreling again. 
eng	eng	I would be willing to lend you money. 	I'd be willing to lend you money. 
eng	eng	They are all irritable. 	They're all irritable. 
eng	eng	I started to think I had behaved foolishly. 	I started to think I'd behaved foolishly. 
eng	eng	Wanna make somethin' of it? 	Wanna make something of it? 
eng	eng	I didn't know that I wouldn't be able to do that. 	I didn't know I wouldn't be able to do that. 
eng	eng	Her new book is wonderful. 	Her new book is amazing. 
eng	eng	Tom thought he was something else. 	Tom thought he was special. 
eng	eng	She has triphobia, the fear of the number three. 	She has triophobia, the fear of the number three. 
eng	eng	I don't think that this is the one that I lost. 	I don't think this is the one that I lost. 
eng	eng	I cannot pronounce your last name. 	I can't pronounce your last name. 
eng	eng	I will win this week's competition. 	I will win the competition this week. 
eng	eng	I think Tom would've been here today if he'd known Mary was going to be here. 	I think that Tom would've been here today if he'd known Mary was going to be here. 
eng	eng	Human beings, whether they realise it or not, continually seek happiness. 	Human beings, whether they realize it or not, continually seek happiness. 
eng	eng	No one knew that it was Tom who'd killed the dog. 	Nobody knew that it was Tom who'd killed the dog. 
eng	eng	He's at death's door. 	He's at the point of death. 
eng	eng	It will cost you 45 cents. 	It'll cost you 45 cents. 
eng	eng	I can't take you seriously. 	I cannot take you seriously. 
eng	eng	Tom put on his reading glasses. 	Tom put his reading glasses on. 
eng	eng	The game ended when the two players decided that there was no other move to make. 	The game ended when both players decided that there was nothing else to do. 
eng	eng	I'll hazard a guess. 	I'll venture a guess. 
eng	eng	I've been up for a while. 	I've been awake for a while. 
eng	eng	What did you cook? 	What have you cooked? 
eng	eng	You are so lucky to live here. 	You're so lucky to live here. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't realize that you could do that. 	Tom didn't realize you could do that. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom knows that Mary doesn't know how to do that. 	I know that Tom knows Mary doesn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	Tom had to remain in hospital for a week. 	Tom had to remain in the hospital for a week. 
eng	eng	That is a stupid thing to think. 	That's a stupid thing to think. 
eng	eng	They say he will be back next month. 	They say that he'll be back next month. 
eng	eng	I am a member of the PCF. 	I'm a member of the PCF. 
eng	eng	In summer, the days are long and the nights are short. 	In the summer, the days are long and the nights are short. 
eng	eng	The bellows are not working. 	The bellows aren't working. 
eng	eng	I am a member of the PCF. 	I'm a member of the French Communist Party. 
eng	eng	Faggot! 	Bender! 
eng	eng	I last had sex 2 days ago. 	I last had sex two days ago. 
eng	eng	Who did you hear that rumour from? 	From whom did you hear that rumour? 
eng	eng	If today was Sunday, I would go fishing. 	If today was Sunday, I'd go fishing. 
eng	eng	There's a little hope that Tom will succeed. 	There's a little hope Tom will succeed. 
eng	eng	Aren't you going to build skyscrapers in France? 	Are you not going to build skyscrapers in France? 
eng	eng	Tom often criticizes us. 	Tom often criticises us. 
eng	eng	Faggot! 	Poofter! 
eng	eng	I feel like I am being watched. 	I feel like I'm being watched. 
eng	eng	They thought that they might be able to win. 	They thought they might be able to win. 
eng	eng	I wish I could have seen it. 	I wish I could've seen it. 
eng	eng	There's a possibility I might go to Australia next spring. 	There's a possibility that I might go to Australia next spring. 
eng	eng	Faggot! 	Poof! 
eng	eng	Tom and Mary said they want to be your friends. 	Tom and Mary said that they want to be your friends. 
eng	eng	Nobody loves him. 	No one loves him. 
eng	eng	Promise me that you'll do your best. 	Promise me you'll do your best. 
eng	eng	I don't think there is any need for you to explain. 	I don't think that there's any need for you to explain. 
eng	eng	Who will operate on Tom? 	Who'll operate on Tom? 
eng	eng	Why didn't you try to call him? 	Why did you not try to call him? 
eng	eng	That's a stylish hat you are wearing. 	That's a stylish hat you're wearing. 
eng	eng	I think they're both good. 	I think both are good. 
eng	eng	I have recently given up smoking. 	I've recently given up smoking. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom doesn't want to be the next one to do that. 	I know Tom doesn't want to be the next one to do that. 
eng	eng	God damn! 	Dash it all! 
eng	eng	Just the once will not hurt. 	Once in a while does no harm. 
eng	eng	What does Tom not like? 	What doesn't Tom like? 
eng	eng	I hope we will be able to keep in touch. 	I hope we'll be able to keep in touch. 
eng	eng	He committed multiple crimes. 	He has committed multiple crimes. 
eng	eng	Your mother is so fat that she has been granted American citizenship. 	Your mom is so fat that she has been granted American citizenship. 
eng	eng	How many times are you planning to do that? 	How many times are you planning on doing that? 
eng	eng	If one occasionally does not forget about work that is not desirable. 	It's not good to only focus on work all the time. 
eng	eng	It wasn't as good. 	It was not as good. 
eng	eng	It would have been cheaper to buy a new one. 	It would've been cheaper to buy a new one. 
eng	eng	You are looking for an apartment. 	You're looking for an apartment. 
eng	eng	Who is hosting today's party? 	Who's hosting today's party? 
eng	eng	I know that Tom knows that Mary doesn't know how to do that. 	I know Tom knows that Mary doesn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	God damn! 	God dash it all! 
eng	eng	When you're sautéing vegetables, it's important to use a non-stick pan. 	When sautéing vegetables, it is important to use a non-stick pan. 
eng	eng	"What party is in power?" "One that pretends that its members share Christian values." "And with what party do you want to replace them?" "A coalition that pretends to be for gay rights." 	"Which party is in power?" "One that pretends that its members share Christian values." "And with which party do you want to replace them?" "A coalition that pretends to be for gay rights." 
eng	eng	Tom said he wouldn't want to do that alone. 	Tom said that he wouldn't want to do that alone. 
eng	eng	I am in labour. 	I'm in labour. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he knew that it was Mary who did that. 	Tom said he knew that it was Mary who did that. 
eng	eng	You're not my wife. 	You are not my wife. 
eng	eng	I have no idea what we will do tomorrow. 	I have no idea what we are going to do tomorrow. 
eng	eng	Does anyone want another piece of cake? 	Does anybody want another piece of cake? 
eng	eng	The computer has already surpassed man in the ability to play chess. And it won't take long to supplant them in the domain of languages as well. 	The computer has already surpassed man in the ability to play chess. And within a short time, it will also supplant them in the domain of languages. 
eng	eng	Do you have good memories of it? 	Do you remember it fondly? 
eng	eng	Is there a bus that goes to the shopping centre? 	Is there a bus that goes to the shopping center? 
eng	eng	Checkers are played in many different ways, despite their widespread use in all civilized countries. 	Checkers are well known in all civilized countries, but they are played in many different ways. 
eng	eng	Come on, get up! 	C'mon, get up! 
eng	eng	I understand that you are a student here. 	I understand that you're a student here. 
eng	eng	I don't feel like myself today. 	I'm out of sorts today. 
eng	eng	I have received no reply from you yet. 	I've received no reply from you yet. 
eng	eng	The autumn leaves surrendered to the caresses of the wind. 	The autumn leaves surrendered to the wind's caresses. 
eng	eng	The cinema was packed. 	The movie theater was packed. 
eng	eng	Maria cannot stand Tom. 	Maria can't stand Tom. 
eng	eng	You'd better pray that your boss doesn't catch wind of this. 	You better hope your boss doesn't get wind of this. 
eng	eng	I haven't found what I've been looking for yet. 	I haven't yet found what I've been looking for. 
eng	eng	Tom said he's not in any hurry to sell his house. 	Tom said he isn't in any hurry to sell his house. 
eng	eng	My periods finished, but I am bleeding again. 	My periods finished, but I'm bleeding again. 
eng	eng	She has a graceful carriage. 	She has a graceful demeanor. 
eng	eng	I don't give a shit! 	I don't give a toss! 
eng	eng	Psych! 	Sike! 
eng	eng	The library is one of my favourite places. 	The library is one of my favorite places. 
eng	eng	We had better save our time and money. 	We'd better save our time and money. 
eng	eng	You've suggested the idea to Marie. 	You have suggested the idea to Marie. 
eng	eng	The trouble is that you are too young. 	The trouble is that you're too young. 
eng	eng	And he knew my deceased father well. 	He was on good terms with my deceased father. 
eng	eng	I hope I'll find a place! 	I hope that I'll find a place! 
eng	eng	There is milk in the refrigerator. 	There's milk in the refrigerator. 
eng	eng	It is a sharp pain. 	It's a sharp pain. 
eng	eng	There is an urgent need for action. 	There's an urgent need for action. 
eng	eng	I'll hazard a guess. 	I'll take a guess. 
eng	eng	This is the most beautiful river I have ever seen. 	This is the most beautiful river I've ever seen. 
eng	eng	All the stores are already closed. 	All the stores are closed already. 
eng	eng	I said this without thinking. 	I said that without thinking. 
eng	eng	A roaring lion kills no game. 	A chattering bird builds no nest. 
eng	eng	It's important for us to win the game. 	It matters whether or not we win the game. 
eng	eng	They are single. 	They're single. 
eng	eng	It is easy to add 5 to 10. 	It's easy to add 5 to 10. 
eng	eng	I think Tom will be able to figure out how to do that. 	I think that Tom will be able to figure out how to do that. 
eng	eng	I've got to change the shock absorbers. 	I have to change the shock absorbers. 
eng	eng	"What's your favorite tea?" "Coffee." 	"What's your favourite tea?" "Coffee." 
eng	eng	I am able to swim here. 	I'm able to swim here. 
eng	eng	TV remotes are always near impossible to find. 	TV remote controllers are always almost impossible to find. 
eng	eng	Its features are good, but the design is where it fails. 	Its features are good, but it falls apart because of the design. 
eng	eng	The cinema was jam-packed. 	The movie theater was jam-packed. 
eng	eng	I haven't yet done that today. 	I haven't done that yet today. 
eng	eng	One of us has to go there. 	One of us has got to go there. 
eng	eng	Ziri is just fourteen and he is not to drink beer. 	Ziri is just fourteen and he is not allowed to drink beer. 
eng	eng	I probably should've shown Tom how to do that. 	I probably should have shown Tom how to do that. 
eng	eng	You will never guess what Tom brought with him. 	You'll never guess what Tom brought with him. 
eng	eng	That's the longest sentence I've found so far on tatoeba.org. It takes up almost an entire page. 	That's the longest sentence I've found so far in the Tatoeba corpus. It takes up almost an entire page. 
eng	eng	My wife's father has dark hair. 	My father-in-law has dark hair. 
eng	eng	The parrots are quiet. 	The parrots are silent. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom knows that Mary doesn't know how to do that. 	I know Tom knows Mary doesn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	She's learning Hungarian. 	He's learning Hungarian. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom knows Mary doesn't know how to do that. 	I know Tom knows Mary doesn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	Who will wash the dishes after dinner? 	Who'll wash the dishes after dinner? 
eng	eng	We're not going to Greece. 	We aren't going to Greece. 
eng	eng	Tom's just your average Joe. 	Tom is just your average Joe. 
eng	eng	I'd like a coffee with milk and sugar. 	I would like a coffee with milk and sugar. 
eng	eng	In a kimono, tabi can't be absent. 	Tabi are indispensable in a kimono. 
eng	eng	This would not help you to learn Berber. 	This will not help you to learn Berber. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom is about half Mary's age. 	I know Tom is about half Mary's age. 
eng	eng	Mary faced fierce competition at the state spelling bee, but she ultimately carried the day thanks to her rigorous preparation. 	Mary faced fierce competition at the state spelling bee, but she ultimately won the day thanks to her rigorous preparation. 
eng	eng	You may sit down in the chair. 	You can sit in the chair. 
eng	eng	I can't contact my relatives. 	I'm not able to contact my relatives. 
eng	eng	Did you already forget all of that? 	Did you already forget all of it? 
eng	eng	It is OK if you don't do it today. 	It's OK if you don't do it today. 
eng	eng	I promised myself that I'd do that. 	I promised myself I'd do that. 
eng	eng	Tom said he isn't in any hurry to sell his house. 	Tom said that he isn't in any hurry to sell his house. 
eng	eng	I'm pretty sure that Tom's happy in Australia. 	I'm pretty sure Tom is happy in Australia. 
eng	eng	He got the wind up. 	He had the jitters. 
eng	eng	See, to beguile the old folks, how the young folks lay their heads together! 	See how, to deceive the old, the young agree! 
eng	eng	How heavy are you in kilos? 	How much do you weigh in kilos? 
eng	eng	Everybody's wrong. 	Everyone's wrong. 
eng	eng	It is not yet dry. 	It's not yet dry. 
eng	eng	Most girls think that they are pretty. 	Most girls think they're pretty. 
eng	eng	We had to force open the door to get in. 	We had to force the door open to get in. 
eng	eng	How heavy are you in kilos? 	How many kilos do you weigh? 
eng	eng	Your behavior is unacceptable. 	Your behaviour is unacceptable. 
eng	eng	Tom said he's not in any hurry to sell his house. 	Tom said that he's not in any hurry to sell his house. 
eng	eng	I must stay in this room all night. 	I should stay in this room all night. 
eng	eng	I had to give them the 411 on the situation. 	I had to explain the situation to them. 
eng	eng	I have a big Johnson. 	I have a big penis. 
eng	eng	Everyone could easily see Tom's disappointment. 	Everybody could easily see Tom's disappointment. 
eng	eng	I think that there isn't any other way to do that. 	I think there isn't any other way to do that. 
eng	eng	Tom admits he left early. 	Tom admits that he left early. 
eng	eng	I am a member of the French Communist Party. 	I am a member of the PCF. 
eng	eng	I have tried every means imaginable. 	I've tried every means imaginable. 
eng	eng	Most girls think they're pretty. 	Most girls think that they're pretty. 
eng	eng	There is no way to prevent this. 	There's no way to prevent this. 
eng	eng	The elephant is grey. 	The elephant is gray. 
eng	eng	Both of my sisters are not married. 	Both of my sisters aren't married. 
eng	eng	My guess is that it will rain soon. 	My guess is that it'll rain soon. 
eng	eng	A wise man would not do such a thing. 	A wise man wouldn't do such a thing. 
eng	eng	I am poor at tennis. 	I'm poor at tennis. 
eng	eng	Jesus! 	God! 
eng	eng	I'm six foot three. 	I'm 6'3". 
eng	eng	I know that Tom will be able to figure out how to do that. 	I know Tom will be able to figure out how to do that. 
eng	eng	The plant has an underground stem. 	That plant has a rhizome. 
eng	eng	No profit grows when is no pleasure taken. 	What is not pleasurable is not profitable. 
eng	eng	I thought you already had a job. 	I thought that you already had a job. 
eng	eng	I am wearing my new dress. 	I'm wearing my new dress. 
eng	eng	I cannot flex my neck. 	I can't flex my neck. 
eng	eng	I thought Tom didn't know how to use a chain saw. 	I thought that Tom didn't know how to use a chain saw. 
eng	eng	We have two refrigerators in the kitchen. 	We have two fridges in the kitchen. 
eng	eng	Write down the medications you need on this piece of paper. 	Write down the medicine you need on this piece of paper. 
eng	eng	I would be happy to do it. 	I'd be happy to do it. 
eng	eng	What're the chances you'll be there? 	What are the chances that you will be there? 
eng	eng	I have already written a letter. 	I've already written a letter. 
eng	eng	I would like to leave. 	I'd like to leave. 
eng	eng	This is really pathetic. 	This is truly pathetic. 
eng	eng	Tom doesn't have a role model. 	Tom hasn't got a role model. 
eng	eng	There is no fundamental reason why machines should not be one day at least as smart as we are. 	There is no fundamental reason that prevents machines from ever being at least as intelligent as we are. 
eng	eng	Tom had to move to a less salubrious neighbourhood. 	Tom had to move to a less salubrious neighborhood. 
eng	eng	She had said she would help us. 	She'd said she'd help us. 
eng	eng	I understand that you're a student here. 	I understand you're a student here. 
eng	eng	Tom thought he was all that and a bag of chips. 	Tom thought he was something else. 
eng	eng	There's things you could be doing to solve this problem. 	There are things you could be doing to solve this problem. 
eng	eng	I don't care what will become of me. 	I don't care what'll become of me. 
eng	eng	Bats have wings too. 	Bats have wings, too. 
eng	eng	I'm a member of the French Communist Party. 	I'm a member of the PCF. 
eng	eng	We have got used to that noise. 	We have gotten used to that noise. 
eng	eng	I'm sorry that I wasn't as careful as I should've been. 	I'm sorry I wasn't as careful as I should've been. 
eng	eng	I hope everyone is okay. 	I hope everyone's OK. 
eng	eng	There are collapsible solar cookers. 	There are foldable solar cookers. 
eng	eng	He's a serial killer. 	He is a serial killer. 
eng	eng	She was an imposter. 	She was a fake. 
eng	eng	You know that I need you. 	You know I need you. 
eng	eng	This work is licensed under a CC BY 4.0 license. 	This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license. 
eng	eng	Sic 'em! 	Sic! 
eng	eng	I thought that maybe Tom wouldn't want to do that. 	I thought maybe Tom wouldn't want to do that. 
eng	eng	Kurdish is my mother language. 	Kurdish is my mother tongue. 
eng	eng	Tom is not the kind of guy you'd want to mess with. 	Tom isn't the kind of guy you'd want to mess with. 
eng	eng	It is a dull pain. 	It's a dull pain. 
eng	eng	The rest is left to you! 	The rest is left to you. 
eng	eng	I was woken up by a phone call. 	I was awoken by a phone call. 
eng	eng	Chess is like looking across an ocean. Checkers is like looking down a well. 	Chess is like an immense ocean. Checkers is like a deep well. 
eng	eng	I thought that maybe Tom wouldn't have to do that. 	I thought maybe Tom wouldn't have to do that. 
eng	eng	I am coughing up blood. 	I'm coughing up blood. 
eng	eng	I understand that you are a student here. 	I understand you're a student here. 
eng	eng	He gave me a pen whose ink was almost all used up. 	He gave me a pen that was almost out of ink. 
eng	eng	Can we play now and study afterward? 	Can we play now and study afterwards? 
eng	eng	No, you are not. 	No, you aren't. 
eng	eng	My cellar is flooded. 	My basement is flooded. 
eng	eng	Meishe is a Lithuanian Jew. 	Meishe is a Litvak. 
eng	eng	Perhaps it will rain in the afternoon. 	Perhaps it'll rain in the afternoon. 
eng	eng	Did Tom know that that would happen? 	Did Tom know that would happen? 
eng	eng	To tell the truth, I have lost your pen. 	To tell the truth, I've lost your pen. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom knows that you know how to do that. 	I know that Tom knows you know how to do that. 
eng	eng	It’s a long way on foot. 	It’s a long way to walk. 
eng	eng	There is no reason to do such a thing. 	There's no reason to do something like that. 
eng	eng	The Earth takes a year to orbit the Sun. 	The Earth takes a year to orbit around the Sun. 
eng	eng	I doubt I can do that, but I'll try. 	I doubt that I can do that, but I'll try. 
eng	eng	For decades, UBI was dismissed as a fringe economic idea. 	For decades, Universal Basic Income was dismissed as a fringe economic idea. 
eng	eng	Tom bought lots of things for his children. 	Tom bought a lot of things for his kids. 
eng	eng	He has suggested the idea to Marie. 	He's suggested the idea to Marie. 
eng	eng	This is not a shrimp. 	It's not a shrimp. 
eng	eng	Tom's making a big effort, but he's getting nowhere. 	Tom is making a big effort, but he's getting nowhere. 
eng	eng	I am bleeding between my periods. 	I'm bleeding between my periods. 
eng	eng	That is tofu. 	That's tofu. 
eng	eng	Ziri frowned. 	Ziri s'est renfrogné. 
eng	eng	How did they get to know each other? 	How did they get to know one another? 
eng	eng	She removes her bra. 	She's removing her bra. 
eng	eng	He's terrible at maths. 	He's rubbish at maths. 
eng	eng	You could learn a lot from that graybeard. 	You could learn a lot from that greybeard. 
eng	eng	Which way leads to the chocolate factory? 	Which way leads to the chocolate shop? 
eng	eng	I cannot stop Tom from doing it. 	I can't stop Tom from doing it. 
eng	eng	I began to fall asleep. 	I began falling asleep. 
eng	eng	She has two sisters. They live in Kyoto. 	She has two sisters. Both live in Kyoto. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom did that when he was thirteen. 	I know Tom did that when he was thirteen. 
eng	eng	You know I don't like to do that, don't you? 	You know that I don't like to do that, don't you? 
eng	eng	I am here with you. 	I’m here with you. 
eng	eng	Mary thinks she's better than everyone else, but she's not. 	Mary thinks she's better than everyone else, but she's not! 
eng	eng	The fish tastes of the sea. 	The fish tastes like the sea. 
eng	eng	Apart from that, is there anything else you want? 	Is there owt else you want save that? 
eng	eng	I have leukaemia. 	I have leukemia. 
eng	eng	Who will protect us from our guardians? 	Who'll protect us from our guardians? 
eng	eng	You get up my nose! 	You get on my tits! 
eng	eng	I am pregnant and I am bleeding. 	I'm pregnant and I'm bleeding. 
eng	eng	Do you want Chinese? 	Do you want Chinese food? 
eng	eng	It is five minutes to nine. 	It's five minutes to nine. 
eng	eng	Don’t ask me to do something that's impossible. 	Don't ask me to do something impossible. 
eng	eng	As soon as possible. 	ASAP 
eng	eng	This really looks like a drug den. 	This really looks like a crack house. 
eng	eng	They are too close. 	They're too close. 
eng	eng	Even though Tom is wealthy, he's not happy. 	Even though Tom is wealthy, he isn't happy. 
eng	eng	Tom noticed the picture hanging on the wall was askew, so he straightened it. 	Tom noticed the picture hanging on the wall was crooked, so he straightened it. 
eng	eng	I thought that you had come on business. 	I thought you'd come on business. 
eng	eng	This isn't the time for joking. 	This isn't the time for jokes. 
eng	eng	At first, I could not swim by myself. 	At first, I couldn't swim by myself. 
eng	eng	It has been snowing since this morning. 	It's been snowing since this morning. 
eng	eng	In two nights, you will leave me. 	You will leave me in two nights. 
eng	eng	Is there anything that I should not eat? 	Is there anything that I shouldn't eat? 
eng	eng	I have not had sex for a long time. 	I haven't had sex for a long time. 
eng	eng	I think you shouldn't have gone there by car. 	I think that you shouldn't have gone there by car. 
eng	eng	The opposite of a correct statement is an incorrect statement, but the opposite of a great truth may be another great truth. 	The opposite of a fact is falsehood, but the opposite of one profound truth may very well be another profound truth. 
eng	eng	The wine is in the market. 	I wine is in the marketplace. 
eng	eng	I don't give a shit! 	I don't give a damn! 
eng	eng	Do you think that I'm witty? 	Do you think I'm witty? 
eng	eng	I did not miss my purse till I got home. 	I did not miss my purse until I returned home. 
eng	eng	Game, set, match, Federer. 	Game, set, and match, Federer. 
eng	eng	Here's the bakery. 	Here is the bakery. 
eng	eng	I didn't know that Tom did that when he was thirteen. 	I didn't know Tom did that when he was thirteen. 
eng	eng	Tom can't ever admit being wrong. 	Tom can't ever admit to being wrong. 
eng	eng	I have already finished the job. 	I've already finished the job. 
eng	eng	You will fall. 	You are going to fall. 
eng	eng	I don't remember anything. I must have passed out. 	I don't remember anything. I must've passed out. 
eng	eng	Do not eat during class. 	Don't eat during class. 
eng	eng	It is almost 12 o'clock. 	It's almost twelve o'clock. 
eng	eng	I knew that Tom wasn't as good a cook as I was. 	I knew Tom wasn't as good a cook as I was. 
eng	eng	It has been raining since yesterday. 	It's been raining since yesterday. 
eng	eng	Do Tom and Mary know that you wish they'd leave? 	Do Tom and Mary know you wish they'd leave? 
eng	eng	I would have said it some other way. 	I would've said it some other way. 
eng	eng	My nose is stuffy. 	My nose is blocked. 
eng	eng	I don't think that Tom made the right decision. 	I don't think Tom made the right decision. 
eng	eng	Tom's favourite animal is a jerboa. 	Tom's favorite animal is a jerboa. 
eng	eng	I will be back by nine. 	I'll be back by nine. 
eng	eng	I think Tom would've been here today if he'd known Mary was going to be here. 	I think Tom would have been here today if he'd known Mary was going to be here. 
eng	eng	We are learning to swim. 	We're learning to swim. 
eng	eng	Let us spend this night together. 	Let's spend this night together. 
eng	eng	Two plus two is four. 	Two plus two make four. 
eng	eng	That's not Tom's style. 	That isn't Tom's style. 
eng	eng	Nothing doing! 	Nuts to you! 
eng	eng	The troop horses came with the regularity of clockwork twice a day down to drink under her window, and, as the weather grew hotter, kicked up their heels and shook their heads furiously under the maddening sting of the dun-fly. 	The troop horses came with the regularity of clockwork twice a day down to drink under her window, and, as the weather grew hotter, kicked up their heels and shook their heads furiously under the maddening sting of the dunfly. 
eng	eng	I'm convinced I'm doing the right thing. 	I'm convinced that I'm doing the right thing. 
eng	eng	Faggot! 	Fairy! 
eng	eng	She's on the run. 	She is on the run. 
eng	eng	As a rule, we have much rain in June in Japan. 	Generally speaking, Japan gets a bunch of rain during the month of June. 
eng	eng	There are not any books under the desk. 	There aren't any books under the desk. 
eng	eng	I am thankful to my friends. 	I'm thankful to my friends. 
eng	eng	I don't speak English. I speak Globish. 	I do not speak English. I speak Globish. 
eng	eng	That is terrifying. I love it. 	That's terrifying. I love it. 
eng	eng	He's a virgin. 	He is a virgin. 
eng	eng	I've been a bean. 	I have been a bean. 
eng	eng	Don't touch my moustache. 	Don't touch my mustache. 
eng	eng	Most girls think that they are pretty. 	Most girls think that they're pretty. 
eng	eng	Keep talking! 	Don't stop talking! 
eng	eng	It's a cheapie. 	It's cheap and nasty. 
eng	eng	If we join together, nobody can stop us. 	If we join together, no one can stop us. 
eng	eng	I am on holiday this week. 	I'm on holiday this week. 
eng	eng	I think Tom is interested in Mary. 	I think that Tom is interested in Mary. 
eng	eng	Duping Mary should be as easy as a piece of cake. 	Duping Mary should be easy as a piece of cake. 
eng	eng	I'd have done that by myself if I'd known how. 	I would've done that by myself if I'd known how. 
eng	eng	I knew that Tom isn't as good a cook as I am. 	I knew Tom isn't as good a cook as I am. 
eng	eng	That team's supporters are really fanatical. 	That team's fans are very fanatical. 
eng	eng	I didn't know that Tom didn't want to be the next one to do that. 	I didn't know Tom didn't want to be the next one to do that. 
eng	eng	Doing new things is more tedious than expected. 	Doing new things takes more effort than expected. 
eng	eng	I have a big penis. 	I have a big dick. 
eng	eng	Make sure all the cables are plugged in properly. 	Make sure all cables are properly connected. 
eng	eng	I am coughing up sputum. 	I'm coughing up sputum. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom was too tired to do that. 	I know Tom was too tired to do that. 
eng	eng	I have two sisters. Both of them are married. 	I have two sisters. They're both married. 
