eng	eng	Does your mum know where you are? 	Does your mom know where you are? 
eng	eng	I didn't see anybody on my way home. 	I didn't see anyone on my way home. 
eng	eng	Tom knew that he no longer needed that, so he threw it away. 	Tom knew he no longer needed that, so he threw it away. 
eng	eng	Doing that must be difficult. 	Doing that must be hard. 
eng	eng	What time should I sleep tonight? 	What time should we sleep tonight? 
eng	eng	Tom saw Mary talking to somebody he didn't know. 	Tom saw Mary talking to someone he didn't know. 
eng	eng	That's not Neptune. 	That isn't Neptune. 
eng	eng	I heard Tom yelling at someone. 	I heard Tom yelling at somebody. 
eng	eng	Is Tom eating the apple I gave him? 	Is Tom eating the apple that I gave him? 
eng	eng	There are always a lot of children in the park. 	There are always lots of children in the park. 
eng	eng	Tom speaks French just as well as you guys do. 	Tom speaks French just as well as you guys. 
eng	eng	I never thought that I'd agree with you. 	I never thought I'd agree with you. 
eng	eng	Tom was pouring Mary a drink when he felt the ground start shaking. 	Tom was pouring a drink for Mary when he felt the ground start shaking. 
eng	eng	What is going to happen to our way of life? 	What's going to happen to our way of life? 
eng	eng	I forgot that Tom was a teacher. 	I forgot Tom was a teacher. 
eng	eng	I hope that Tom got the help he needed. 	I hope Tom got the help he needed. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't read the letter he received from Mary. 	Tom didn't read the letter that he received from Mary. 
eng	eng	That has to be proven first. 	That has to be proved first. 
eng	eng	Tom said he's waiting for you. 	Tom said that he's waiting for you. 
eng	eng	I wish you'd take this. 	I wish that you'd take this. 
eng	eng	Tom is a bottom. 	Tom's a bottom. 
eng	eng	Don't let Tom see you're afraid. 	Don't let Tom see that you're afraid. 
eng	eng	Almost no one got there on time. 	Almost nobody got there on time. 
eng	eng	You will be allowed to go out soon. 	You'll be allowed to go out soon. 
eng	eng	That's not the response I was expecting. 	That isn't the response I was expecting. 
eng	eng	The vase that Tom broke is Mary's. 	The vase Tom broke is Mary's. 
eng	eng	The car that I have now is much better than the one I used to have. 	The car I have now is much better than the one I used to have. 
eng	eng	Tom will be a good footballer one day. 	Tom'll be a good footballer one day. 
eng	eng	The man by her side began to smile involuntarily. 	The man beside her began to smile involuntarily. 
eng	eng	I hope that you're doing your best. 	I hope you're doing your best. 
eng	eng	"What kind of person was Tom?" "I'll put it this way: someone who nobody here misses." 	"What kind of person was Tom?" "I'll put it this way: somebody who no one here misses." 
eng	eng	I've been told that you're looking for a babysitter. 	I've been told you're looking for a babysitter. 
eng	eng	A fortnight of heavy rain led to flooding. 	Two weeks of heavy rain led to flooding. 
eng	eng	I am interested in Asian history. 	I'm interested in Asian history. 
eng	eng	I never thought that we'd agree on anything. 	I never thought we'd agree on anything. 
eng	eng	The hotel sector is recruiting people. 	The hotel sector is taking people on. 
eng	eng	Sleet was falling from the sky. 	A mixture of snow and rain was falling from the sky. 
eng	eng	There's many a slip between cup and lip. 	There's many a slip 'twixt cup and lip. 
eng	eng	Nobody here believes Tom anymore. 	No one here believes Tom anymore. 
eng	eng	Does anyone have a logical explanation for this? 	Does anybody have a logical explanation for this? 
eng	eng	Tom was surprised Mary didn't know how to do that. 	Tom was surprised that Mary didn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	I hope that you're not afraid to use it. 	I hope you're not afraid to use it. 
eng	eng	Tom got there early to make sure that everything had been set up right. 	Tom got there early to make sure everything had been set up right. 
eng	eng	Here's a gun. I hope you're not afraid to use it. 	Here's a gun. I hope you aren't afraid to use it. 
eng	eng	We didn't have enough food for everyone. 	We didn't have enough food for everybody. 
eng	eng	She has made some biscuits. 	She's made some biscuits. 
eng	eng	The away team is winning one-nil. 	The away team are winning one-nil. 
eng	eng	I'd rather live in a world full of secrets than one that's so small that I'm able to understand it. 	I'd rather live in a world full of secrets than one so small that I'm able to understand it. 
eng	eng	He pulled out his pen. 	He pulled his pen out. 
eng	eng	I wish that you'd stop making fun of me. 	I wish you'd stop making fun of me. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes that Mary won't be deported. 	Tom hopes Mary won't be deported. 
eng	eng	It will scarcely be any easier on the people if the cudgel with which they are beaten is called the people's cudgel. 	It will scarcely be any easier on the people if the stick with which they are beaten is called the people's stick. 
eng	eng	Do you mean that you still haven't done that? 	Do you mean you still haven't done that? 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason that Tom ought to have done that. 	That's not the main reason that Tom ought to have done that. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Tom is a better basketball player than you. 	Tom is a better basketball player than you are. 
eng	eng	No one was killed or injured in the attack. 	Nobody was killed or injured in the attack. 
eng	eng	I hope I get to come back here soon. 	I hope that I get to come back here soon. 
eng	eng	She has phoned. 	She's rung. 
eng	eng	Tom saw Mary talking to someone he didn't know. 	Tom saw Mary talking to somebody that he didn't know. 
eng	eng	Why don't we buy Tom one? 	Why don't we buy one for Tom? 
eng	eng	It's your fault I'm crippled. 	It's your fault that I'm crippled. 
eng	eng	That's not the only thing Tom found. 	That isn't the only thing Tom found. 
eng	eng	She's mended the broken table. 	She has mended the broken table. 
eng	eng	That isn't very difficult to do. 	That isn't very hard to do. 
eng	eng	I heard that Tom shot somebody. 	I heard that Tom shot someone. 
eng	eng	All you have to do is to pretend that you like it. 	All you have to do is to pretend you like it. 
eng	eng	In all my travels, I've never seen a more beautiful mountain than Mount Everest. 	In all my travels, I've never seen a more beautiful mountain than Mt. Everest. 
eng	eng	The meat you're eating isn't chicken. 	The meat that you're eating isn't chicken. 
eng	eng	That's not the response we expected. 	That's not the response that we expected. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he needed something to eat. 	Tom said he needed something to eat. 
eng	eng	That's not the only thing that I want to do. 	That isn't the only thing that I want to do. 
eng	eng	I hope that I'll be in Boston next weekend. 	I hope I'll be in Boston next weekend. 
eng	eng	Why don't we buy Tom a dog? 	Why don't we buy a dog for Tom? 
eng	eng	This is something that I've just started doing. 	This is something I've just started doing. 
eng	eng	Even though Tom has a lot of money, he's not happy. 	Even though Tom has a lot of money, he isn't happy. 
eng	eng	She is hard to impress. 	She's hard to impress. 
eng	eng	That's something we can all hope for. 	That's something that we can all hope for. 
eng	eng	We put our gloves on. 	We put on our gloves. 
eng	eng	Don't you understand that Tom despises me? 	Don't you understand Tom despises me? 
eng	eng	I will draw water from the well. 	I'll draw water from the well. 
eng	eng	I am the night shift nurse. 	I'm the night shift nurse. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Nobody knows what this cost me. 	No one knows what this cost me. 
eng	eng	I think you meant to send this message to someone else. 	I think that you meant to send this message to someone else. 
eng	eng	She's in the toilet. 	She's in the loo. 
eng	eng	The company Tom used to work for went bankrupt. 	The company that Tom used to work for went bankrupt. 
eng	eng	Who is the girl who is crying? 	Who is the girl who's crying? 
eng	eng	It's a miracle Tom survived that accident. 	It's a miracle that Tom survived that accident. 
eng	eng	The ball went out for a corner. 	The ball went out for a corner kick. 
eng	eng	Why don't we just admit we're wrong? 	Why don't we just admit that we're wrong? 
eng	eng	I'd like to tell Mary that I love her. 	I'd like to tell Mary I love her. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes that Mary won't be disqualified. 	Tom hopes Mary won't be disqualified. 
eng	eng	I don't think that I'll be able to understand it. 	I don't think I'll be able to understand it. 
eng	eng	Do you have a cellphone? 	Do you have a mobile? 
eng	eng	That isn't the only reason why Tom didn't want to do that. 	That's not the only reason why Tom didn't want to do that. 
eng	eng	Tom ate the steak Mary cooked for him. 	Tom ate the steak that Mary cooked for him. 
eng	eng	How about we bunk off school and go to the beach? 	How about we skive off school and go to the beach? 
eng	eng	That isn't the response we expected. 	That's not the response that we expected. 
eng	eng	Tom doesn't care what everybody else does. 	Tom doesn't care what everyone else does. 
eng	eng	Tom never read the book I lent him. 	Tom never read the book that I lent him. 
eng	eng	Tom speaks French almost as well as Mary does. 	Tom speaks French almost as well as Mary. 
eng	eng	Everyone thinks Tom is a genius. 	Everybody thinks Tom is a genius. 
eng	eng	I hope you're wrong about that. 	I hope that you're wrong about that. 
eng	eng	It will not stay this way. 	It won't stay this way. 
eng	eng	Time's up! 	Time! 
eng	eng	"My dad doesn't drink." "My dad doesn't drink, either." 	"My dad doesn't drink." "Mine doesn't either." 
eng	eng	He wondered whether to ring her. 	He wondered whether to phone her. 
eng	eng	If I were you, I'd quit. 	I'd quit if I were you. 
eng	eng	Someone was murdered in that forest, and their ghost still haunts it. 	Somebody was murdered in that forest, and their ghost still haunts it. 
eng	eng	Nobody noticed my new haircut. 	No one noticed my new haircut. 
eng	eng	This work is so simple even a child can do it. 	This work is so simple that even a child can do it. 
eng	eng	Tom said he hoped he'd win the race. 	Tom said that he hoped he'd win the race. 
eng	eng	Tom sometimes rings Mary five times a day. 	Tom sometimes calls Mary five times a day. 
eng	eng	I've been told you're looking for a sitter. 	I've been told that you're looking for a sitter. 
eng	eng	Will you take care of my dog while I am away? 	Will you take care of my dog while I'm away? 
eng	eng	Who's been texting you? 	Who has been texting you? 
eng	eng	I think it's raining. 	I think that it's raining. 
eng	eng	Someone stole the hubcaps off my car. 	Somebody stole the hubcaps off my car. 
eng	eng	There is nothing more important than friends. 	There's nothing more important than friends. 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason Tom shouldn't have done that. 	That's not the main reason Tom shouldn't have done that. 
eng	eng	That's not something that I need. 	That's not something I need. 
eng	eng	That isn't something you forget. 	That's not something that you forget. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he wouldn't mind waiting. 	Tom said he wouldn't mind waiting. 
eng	eng	I wish I had time to eat. 	I wish that I had time to eat. 
eng	eng	Close the door and sit down! 	Close the door and sit down. 
eng	eng	That's the only way we'll be able to survive. 	That's the only way that we'll be able to survive. 
eng	eng	Wolves are not as smart as foxes. 	Wolves aren't as smart as foxes. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't open the letter that he got from Mary. 	Tom didn't open the letter he got from Mary. 
eng	eng	Tom told me that he doesn't care what other people think of him. 	Tom told me he doesn't care what other people think of him. 
eng	eng	I could not have done otherwise. 	I couldn't have done otherwise. 
eng	eng	Why don't we talk about somebody else? 	Why don't we talk about someone else? 
eng	eng	Why don't we try doing this the way that Tom suggested? 	Why don't we try doing this the way Tom suggested? 
eng	eng	That isn't the only reason why Tom shouldn't have done that. 	That's not the only reason why Tom shouldn't have done that. 
eng	eng	There's no one in that room. 	There's nobody in that room. 
eng	eng	We will put up spotlights. 	We'll put up spotlights. 
eng	eng	I think Tom's temper impairs his judgment. 	I think that Tom's temper impairs his judgment. 
eng	eng	Tom said he wished he were a fish. 	Tom said that he wished he were a fish. 
eng	eng	We're not dumb. 	We aren't dumb. 
eng	eng	Did you see the way that Tom looked at Mary? 	Did you see the way Tom looked at Mary? 
eng	eng	I think I recognize this place. 	I think that I recognize this place. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom bought the house he was looking at last week. 	I think that Tom bought the house that he was looking at last week. 
eng	eng	We knew that Tom was going to lose. 	We knew Tom was going to lose. 
eng	eng	There is a café on the second floor. 	There's a cafe on the second floor. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Tom's just going through the motions. 	Tom is just going through the motions. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he didn't see anyone. 	Tom said that he didn't see anybody. 
eng	eng	My brother still stands by me whenever I am in trouble. 	My brother still stands by me whenever I'm in trouble. 
eng	eng	This isn't the first time that I've been here. 	This isn't the first time I've been here. 
eng	eng	Are you really sure that we're safe here? 	Are you really sure we're safe here? 
eng	eng	Has anyone told Tom the truth? 	Has anybody told Tom the truth? 
eng	eng	That isn't something I need. 	That's not something I need. 
eng	eng	Tell me three things that you have to do every day. 	Tell me three things you have to do every day. 
eng	eng	I think Tom's a bit tipsy. 	I think Tom is a bit tipsy. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes that no one will ask him to do that. 	Tom hopes nobody will ask him to do that. 
eng	eng	I knew Tom was standing behind the curtain. 	I knew that Tom was standing behind the curtain. 
eng	eng	Tom still isn't able to make himself understood in French. 	Tom still can't make himself understood in French. 
eng	eng	Everyone dies someday. 	Everybody dies someday. 
eng	eng	There wasn't enough food for everyone. 	There wasn't enough food for everybody. 
eng	eng	I don't have anyone to help me. 	I don't have anybody to help me. 
eng	eng	Tom says that he doesn't feel like drinking tonight. 	Tom says he doesn't feel like drinking tonight. 
eng	eng	Tom said that everybody was very drunk. 	Tom said everybody was very drunk. 
eng	eng	I'm sure that other people have told you this, but you're really beautiful. 	I'm sure other people have told you this, but you're really beautiful. 
eng	eng	Tom gave Mary a fur coat. 	Tom gave a fur coat to Mary. 
eng	eng	I think Tom died on October twentieth. 	I think that Tom died on October twentieth. 
eng	eng	Tell Tom I'll be there tomorrow. 	Tell Tom that I'll be there tomorrow. 
eng	eng	That is the girl whose father is a doctor. 	That's the girl whose father is a doctor. 
eng	eng	I noticed that Tom's feet weren't clean. 	I noticed Tom's feet weren't clean. 
eng	eng	We need to give this package to Tom. 	We need to give Tom this package. 
eng	eng	Tom admitted he'd lied to Mary. 	Tom admitted that he'd lied to Mary. 
eng	eng	I hope that Tom doesn't see us. 	I hope Tom doesn't see us. 
eng	eng	That's not something that we've ever talked about. 	That isn't something that we've ever talked about. 
eng	eng	It happened so suddenly that we didn't have time to react. 	It happened so suddenly we didn't have time to react. 
eng	eng	That's not what's important. 	That isn't what's important. 
eng	eng	Someone set Tom up. 	Somebody set Tom up. 
eng	eng	That's something that I've been doing lately. 	That's something I've been doing lately. 
eng	eng	I'm from Erbil. 	I'm from Arbil. 
eng	eng	My car cost a lot more than Tom's did. 	My car cost a lot more than Tom's car did. 
eng	eng	That's not a problem in the summer. 	That isn't a problem in the summer. 
eng	eng	Everybody says that Tom is a good man. 	Everybody says Tom is a good man. 
eng	eng	This is something that I found on your porch. 	This is something I found on your porch. 
eng	eng	Are you sure Tom isn't lying? 	Are you sure that Tom isn't lying? 
eng	eng	Why do you think that'll happen? 	Why do you think that that'll happen? 
eng	eng	I hope you have lots of fun. 	I hope you have a lot of fun. 
eng	eng	No one could answer Tom's question. 	Nobody could answer Tom's question. 
eng	eng	Tom isn't going away. 	Tom's not going away. 
eng	eng	Tom says that he doesn't want to drink anything. 	Tom says he doesn't want to drink anything. 
eng	eng	I was so excited I couldn't eat anything. 	I was so excited that I couldn't eat anything. 
eng	eng	But nobody knows what he's really up to. 	But nobody knows what she's really up to. 
eng	eng	Why don't we buy Tom this cap? 	Why don't we buy this cap for Tom? 
eng	eng	Who is the girl who's crying? 	Who's the girl who is crying? 
eng	eng	That isn't something I'd ever do. 	That's not something that I'd ever do. 
eng	eng	We cannot reverse the process. 	We can't reverse the process. 
eng	eng	Tom knows that he has to do what Mary tells him to do. 	Tom knows he has to do what Mary tells him to do. 
eng	eng	That's not very hard to do. 	That isn't very hard to do. 
eng	eng	We took off our coats. 	We took our coats off. 
eng	eng	I don't think anybody could survive that. 	I don't think anyone could survive that. 
eng	eng	I think that that's appropriate. 	I think that's appropriate. 
eng	eng	That isn't the response that we expected. 	That's not the response we expected. 
eng	eng	There's a chance that we'll have to do that. 	There's a chance we'll have to do that. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't realize that he'd hurt Mary. 	Tom didn't realize he'd hurt Mary. 
eng	eng	I hope you haven't been talking about me. 	I hope that you haven't been talking about me. 
eng	eng	Hello everyone. 	Hi everybody. 
eng	eng	I don't think that that branch can support your weight. 	I don't think that branch can support your weight. 
eng	eng	Go straight over at the traffic lights. 	Go straight over at the lights. 
eng	eng	Tom offered me a cigarette. 	Tom offered a cigarette to me. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't speak French until he was thirteen. 	Tom didn't speak French until he was thirteen years old. 
eng	eng	We're not good at math. 	We're not good at maths. 
eng	eng	We haven't washed our hands yet. 	We haven't yet washed our hands. 
eng	eng	Honestly, I would rather be wrong. 	Honestly, I'd rather be wrong. 
eng	eng	The hotel sector is recruiting. 	The hotel sector is taking people on. 
eng	eng	Tom is the man that I want to marry. 	Tom is the man I want to marry. 
eng	eng	I should have read that book. 	I should've read that book. 
eng	eng	I admit that this may not be the best way to do it. 	I admit this may not be the best way to do it. 
eng	eng	Are there any native speakers of Toki Pona? 	Are there any native Toki Pona speakers? 
eng	eng	Is it okay if I ask you a few medical questions? 	Is it OK if I ask you a few medical questions? 
eng	eng	I know Tom is a very good football player. 	I know that Tom is a very good football player. 
eng	eng	Tom's a utilitarian. 	Tom is a utilitarian. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing that Tom did. 	That's not the only thing Tom did. 
eng	eng	This is not a hat. 	This isn't a hat. 
eng	eng	This tank holds thirty litres. 	This tank holds thirty liters. 
eng	eng	We are missing some of our reports. 	We're missing some of our reports. 
eng	eng	Tom said Mary hopes that John does that. 	Tom said that Mary hopes that John does that. 
eng	eng	For the time being, I am studying French at this language school. 	For the time being, I'm studying French at this language school. 
eng	eng	That's not the response I was expecting. 	That isn't the response that I was expecting. 
eng	eng	We hope Tom will help us. 	We hope that Tom will help us. 
eng	eng	Would you be surprised if I told you my name isn't actually Tom? 	Would you be surprised if I told you that my name isn't actually Tom? 
eng	eng	Hand Tom the mic. 	Hand the mic to Tom. 
eng	eng	There's a possibility that that rumor is true. 	There's a possibility that rumor is true. 
eng	eng	Do you feel like you cannot connect with other people? 	Do you feel like you can't connect with other people? 
eng	eng	I hope Tom can get that sorted out. 	I hope that Tom can get that sorted out. 
eng	eng	Nobody knows what's become of Tom. 	No one knows what's become of Tom. 
eng	eng	I wish that I could lose weight and keep it off. 	I wish I could lose weight and keep it off. 
eng	eng	Tom drank from the glass that Mary handed him.. 	Tom drank from the glass Mary handed him.. 
eng	eng	I am a man who can't stand being alone. 	I'm a man who can't stand being alone. 
eng	eng	That's not something that you forget. 	That isn't something that you forget. 
eng	eng	I think Tom bought the house he was looking at last week. 	I think that Tom bought the house he was looking at last week. 
eng	eng	What have you bought for him? 	What've you bought for him? 
eng	eng	That isn't your sandwich. 	That's not your sandwich. 
eng	eng	We're all children of God. 	We're all God's children. 
eng	eng	Pump the tyres up. 	Pump up the tyres. 
eng	eng	Tom asked me to tell you that he'd be late. 	Tom asked me to tell you he'd be late. 
eng	eng	That's not the main reason Tom has to do that. 	That's not the main reason that Tom has to do that. 
eng	eng	It has to be proven first. 	It has to be proved first. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	Do you still believe that Tom is innocent? 	Do you still believe Tom is innocent? 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing Tom wanted. 	That isn't the only thing that Tom wanted. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't like the T-shirt that I gave him. 	Tom didn't like the T-shirt I gave him. 
eng	eng	Where has it got to? 	Where's it got to? 
eng	eng	Tom said that Mary hopes you do that. 	Tom said Mary hopes you do that. 
eng	eng	I know that I have many enemies here. 	I know I have a lot of enemies here. 
eng	eng	Tom was surprised when he saw Mary eating meat because she'd told him she was a vegetarian. 	Tom was surprised when he saw Mary eating meat because she'd told him that she was a vegetarian. 
eng	eng	During my early teens, I was not always on the best of terms with my parents. 	During my early teens, I wasn't always on the best of terms with my parents. 
eng	eng	A sentence can never have too many translations. 	There can never be a sentence that has too many translations. 
eng	eng	Turn on the light! 	Turn the light on. 
eng	eng	Tom sometimes rings Mary five times a day. 	Tom sometimes phones Mary five times a day. 
eng	eng	I can't believe that you called Tom an idiot. 	I can't believe you called Tom an idiot. 
eng	eng	That isn't something that I'd joke about. 	That's not something that I'd joke about. 
eng	eng	Tom switched off the light and left the room. 	Tom switched the light off and left the room. 
eng	eng	Tom got there early to make sure that everything had been set up correctly. 	Tom got there early to make sure everything had been set up correctly. 
eng	eng	Tom asked me the same questions that Mary asked me. 	Tom asked me the same questions Mary asked me. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom needs a hug. 	I think Tom needs a hug. 
eng	eng	Tom hoofed the ball upfield. 	Tom hoofed the ball up the pitch. 
eng	eng	That isn't fun. 	That's not fun. 
eng	eng	That isn't the sort of thing we like to do. 	That isn't the sort of thing that we like to do. 
eng	eng	You should have listened to my warning when you had the chance. 	You should've listened to my warning when you had the chance. 
eng	eng	Tom isn't Australian. 	Tom's not Australian. 
eng	eng	That has to be a mistake. 	That has got to be a mistake. 
eng	eng	Tom has done a lot more in his life than Mary. 	Tom has done a lot more in his life than Mary has. 
eng	eng	It's surprising that you haven't heard anything from Tom. 	It's surprising you haven't heard anything from Tom. 
eng	eng	We're not monsters. 	We aren't monsters. 
eng	eng	I hope that this time it works. 	I hope this time it works. 
eng	eng	Mary is a physics student. 	Mary is a student of physics. 
eng	eng	He has come down in the world. 	He's come down in the world. 
eng	eng	There are always a lot of kids in the park. 	There are always lots of children in the park. 
eng	eng	The railway station is close to the hotel. 	The railway station is near the hotel. 
eng	eng	This is the book that I bought three days ago. 	This is the book I bought three days ago. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	I think that someone spiked the punch. 	I think that somebody spiked the punch. 
eng	eng	I thought it might rain. 	I thought that it might rain. 
eng	eng	Doing that might not be so difficult. 	Doing that might not be so hard. 
eng	eng	Tom went to a tattoo parlor, thinking he might want to get a tattoo. 	Tom went to a tattoo parlor, thinking that he might want to get a tattoo. 
eng	eng	I am in the first year of high school. 	I'm in the first year of high school. 
eng	eng	Yay. 	Hurrah! 
eng	eng	Tom said that he had proof. 	Tom said he had proof. 
eng	eng	That is a flower. 	That's a flower. 
eng	eng	I could not get out. 	I couldn't get out. 
eng	eng	I wasn't aware that somebody was watching me. 	I wasn't aware somebody was watching me. 
eng	eng	Tom died on the same day that Mary was born. 	Tom died on the same day Mary was born. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes no one will ask him to do that. 	Tom hopes that nobody will ask him to do that. 
eng	eng	You know that we are here. 	You know that we're here. 
eng	eng	Tom felt sleepy because he'd only slept three hours. 	Tom felt sleepy because he'd only slept for three hours. 
eng	eng	The site's not working at all. 	The site isn't working at all. 
eng	eng	Everyone says that Tom is a good man. 	Everybody says Tom is a good man. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only reason why Tom should've done that. 	That's not the only reason why Tom should've done that. 
eng	eng	That has to be proven first. 	That must be proved first. 
eng	eng	As for me, I am not satisfied with the result of the examination the other day. 	As for me, I'm not satisfied with the result of the examination the other day. 
eng	eng	Try not to make the same mistake that I did. 	Try not to make the same mistake I did. 
eng	eng	I trusted someone who didn't deserve my trust. 	I trusted somebody who didn't deserve my trust. 
eng	eng	I handed Tom my set of keys. 	I handed my set of keys to Tom. 
eng	eng	That isn't the answer I'd hoped for. 	That isn't the answer that I'd hoped for. 
eng	eng	Why did you not explain it to Tom? 	Why didn't you explain it to Tom? 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	Listening is not one of his strengths. 	Listening is not his forte. 
eng	eng	Did anyone other than Tom dance with Mary? 	Did anybody other than Tom dance with Mary? 
eng	eng	I am acquainted with the chairman of the committee. 	I'm acquainted with the chairman of the committee. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't get the promotion that he was expecting to get. 	Tom didn't get the promotion he was expecting. 
eng	eng	Do you think your sources are reliable? 	Do you think that your sources are reliable? 
eng	eng	I thought you'd finished that already. 	I thought that you'd finished that already. 
eng	eng	No one knows how long they'll live. 	Nobody knows how long they'll live. 
eng	eng	A T-shirt is not appropriate attire for a job interview. 	A T-shirt isn't appropriate attire for a job interview. 
eng	eng	We die, but some chess games are everlasting. 	We are mortal, but some chess games are immortal. 
eng	eng	It is still moving. 	It's still moving. 
eng	eng	Tom ate the brownies that Mary had baked for him. 	Tom ate the brownies Mary had baked for him. 
eng	eng	That isn't a word I'd ever use. 	That's not a word that I'd ever use. 
eng	eng	That isn't soft. 	That's not soft. 
eng	eng	I'm afraid that Tom is going to drink himself to death. 	I'm afraid Tom is going to drink himself to death. 
eng	eng	Tom told me that the door was open, but it wasn't. 	Tom told me the door was open, but it wasn't. 
eng	eng	"Everybody has flaws." "I don't." 	"Everyone has flaws." "I don't." 
eng	eng	What is the distance between here and there? 	What's the distance between here and there? 
eng	eng	I'm not sure if I will respond. 	I'm not sure if I'll respond. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing that I wanted to do. 	That isn't the only thing I wanted to do. 
eng	eng	That's not the main reason Tom should've done that. 	That's not the main reason that Tom should've done that. 
eng	eng	It's too bad you didn't take my advice. 	It's too bad that you didn't take my advice. 
eng	eng	I imagine we won't be seeing Tom anytime soon. 	I imagine that we won't be seeing Tom anytime soon. 
eng	eng	Why's he so thin? 	Why is he so thin? 
eng	eng	I suggest that you try a different approach. 	I suggest you try a different approach. 
eng	eng	Which of your textbooks is your favourite? 	Which one of your textbooks is your favourite? 
eng	eng	I lent Tom an umbrella. 	I lent an umbrella to Tom. 
eng	eng	That's the stupidest idea I've ever heard. 	That's the stupidest idea that I've ever heard. 
eng	eng	If Tom hadn't done it, somebody else would have. 	If Tom hadn't done it, somebody else would've done it. 
eng	eng	We're lucky that we were able to avoid doing that. 	We're lucky we were able to avoid doing that. 
eng	eng	I have been keeping a diary for 3 years. 	I've been keeping a diary for three years. 
eng	eng	Whenever Tom and Mary see each other out and about, they always stop to have a chat. 	Whenever Tom and Mary see each other out and about, they always stop and have a natter. 
eng	eng	I think that I saw something moving. 	I think I saw something moving. 
eng	eng	What will that change? 	What'll that change? 
eng	eng	There was a man on the street that tried to sell me flowers. 	There was a man on the street that tried to sell flowers to me. 
eng	eng	That's not really how it went down. 	That isn't really how it went down. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	I think Tom thinks I think too much. 	I think that Tom thinks that I think too much. 
eng	eng	Everyone has flaws. 	Everybody has flaws. 
eng	eng	I think I should probably do that. 	I think that I should probably do that. 
eng	eng	You will never be smart. 	You'll never be smart. 
eng	eng	I am glad to accept your invitation. 	I'm glad to accept your invitation. 
eng	eng	Tom needs to be taken to the hospital immediately. 	Tom needs to be taken to hospital immediately. 
eng	eng	Did you switch the computer off? 	Did you switch off the computer? 
eng	eng	Tom said he hoped he'd win the race. 	Tom said that he hoped that he'd win the race. 
eng	eng	It wasn't clear who was behind the attack. 	It was unclear who was behind the attack. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't call to let me know he wouldn't be there. 	Tom didn't call to let me know that he wouldn't be there. 
eng	eng	That isn't our agreement. 	That's not our agreement. 
eng	eng	Would it be OK if I turned off the radio? 	Would it be OK if I turned the radio off? 
eng	eng	Tom drives slower than Mary. 	Tom drives slower than Mary does. 
eng	eng	That's not the main reason that Tom needs to do that. 	That's not the main reason Tom needs to do that. 
eng	eng	That's not exactly what I wanted. 	That isn't exactly what I wanted. 
eng	eng	I'm sure Tom will like his new room. 	I'm sure that Tom will like his new room. 
eng	eng	I'm afraid this might happen again. 	I'm afraid that this might happen again. 
eng	eng	There's a café on the third floor. 	There's a cafe on the third floor. 
eng	eng	The date and venue for our next concert haven't been set yet. 	The date and venue for our next concert haven't yet been set. 
eng	eng	Tom told me he thought Mary had been suspended. 	Tom told me that he thought that Mary had been suspended. 
eng	eng	Most people who get infected with tuberculosis never get sick. 	Most people who get infected with TB never get sick. 
eng	eng	We put our sunglasses on. 	We put on our sunglasses. 
eng	eng	I assume that Tom will be joining us. 	I assume Tom will be joining us. 
eng	eng	You can invite anyone you like. 	You can invite anybody you like. 
eng	eng	I really hope we don't lose. 	I really hope that we don't lose. 
eng	eng	Some went on foot, others by bicycle. 	Some went on foot, others by bike. 
eng	eng	Doing that would be hard now. 	Doing that would be difficult now. 
eng	eng	The ice cream I ate yesterday was delicious. 	The ice cream that I ate yesterday was delicious. 
eng	eng	Tom told Mary that he hadn't eaten anything since breakfast. 	Tom told Mary he hadn't eaten anything since breakfast. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	The rain has stopped. Let's go for a walk. 	The rain's stopped. Let's go for a walk. 
eng	eng	That's not something I'd ever do. 	That isn't something I'd ever do. 
eng	eng	Is there an underground in your city? 	Is there a metro in your city? 
eng	eng	Tom went to see Mary in the hospital every day. 	Tom went to see Mary in hospital every day. 
eng	eng	"What kind of person was Tom?" "I'll put it this way: somebody who nobody here misses." 	"What kind of person was Tom?" "I'll put it this way: somebody who no one here misses." 
eng	eng	Tom made sure that everything was set up correctly. 	Tom made sure everything was set up correctly. 
eng	eng	That's not the main reason that Tom shouldn't have done that. 	That's not the main reason Tom shouldn't have done that. 
eng	eng	There's a café on the second floor. 	There is a cafe on the second floor. 
eng	eng	That isn't what Tom wanted. 	That's not what Tom wanted. 
eng	eng	Let's hope that that isn't going to happen. 	Let's hope that that's not going to happen. 
eng	eng	We need to pay back the money that we owe Tom. 	We need to pay back the money we owe Tom. 
eng	eng	I hope Tom does that soon. 	I hope that Tom does that soon. 
eng	eng	Don't let anybody know I'm here. 	Don't let anyone know that I'm here. 
eng	eng	Someone told me you'd died. 	Somebody told me you'd died. 
eng	eng	There is nothing in this world that I am afraid of. 	There's nothing in this world that I'm afraid of. 
eng	eng	I think Tom thinks that I think that. 	I think that Tom thinks I think that. 
eng	eng	We are hiring. 	We're hiring. 
eng	eng	Don't take what I said too seriously, okay? 	Don't take what I said too seriously, OK? 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he saw it on TV. 	Tom said he saw it on TV. 
eng	eng	I am already accustomed to sitting on tatami. 	I'm already accustomed to sitting on tatami. 
eng	eng	That isn't something that I'm prepared to do. 	That's not something I'm prepared to do. 
eng	eng	May I try on this jacket? 	May I try this jacket on? 
eng	eng	We took off our sunglasses. 	We took our sunglasses off. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom is a very good soccer player. 	I know Tom is a very good soccer player. 
eng	eng	I don't know whether Tom eats meat or not. 	I don't know if Tom eats meat or not. 
eng	eng	Someone drove by the house yelling "Cocksuckers!" in the middle of the night. 	Somebody drove by the house yelling "Cocksuckers!" in the middle of the night. 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason that Tom didn't want to do that. 	That's not the main reason Tom didn't want to do that. 
eng	eng	I hope you've never done that. 	I hope that you've never done that. 
eng	eng	I like greengages. 	I like greengage plums. 
eng	eng	This jacket has buttons. 	This jacket's got buttons. 
eng	eng	Is Tom eating the sandwich that Mary made for him? 	Is Tom eating the sandwich Mary made for him? 
eng	eng	I wish my French was as good as your English. 	I wish that my French was as good as your English. 
eng	eng	Today is August twelfth. 	Today is the twelfth of August. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	You're not very intimidating. 	You aren't very intimidating. 
eng	eng	You're not going to leave me here, are you? 	You aren't going to leave me here, are you? 
eng	eng	Everyone died. 	Everybody died. 
eng	eng	I think what Tom's doing is wrong. 	I think that what Tom's doing is wrong. 
eng	eng	I wish Tom would believe me. 	I wish that Tom would believe me. 
eng	eng	Some men came and cut down the tree. 	Some men came and cut the tree down. 
eng	eng	Tom assured me that that wouldn't happen. 	Tom assured me that wouldn't happen. 
eng	eng	I don't think that's French. 	I don't think that that's French. 
eng	eng	I knew Tom would be busy today. 	I knew that Tom would be busy today. 
eng	eng	Sleet was falling from the sky. 	Ice pellets were falling from the sky. 
eng	eng	I grew up with these TV shows. 	I grew up on these TV shows. 
eng	eng	Don't tell anyone that I did that. 	Don't tell anyone I did that. 
eng	eng	Is it okay if I ask you a few questions about your medical history? 	Is it OK if I ask you a few questions about your medical history? 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	Moses was the greatest of the prophets, but he was not a perfect person. 	Moshe was the greatest of the prophets, but he was not a perfect person. 
eng	eng	The limo was too long to fit into one parking space, so it was parked diagonally across three parking spaces. 	The limousine was too long to fit into one parking space, so it was parked diagonally across three parking spaces. 
eng	eng	Life's meaningless. 	Life is meaningless. 
eng	eng	Tom and Mary were both sick. 	Both Tom and Mary were sick. 
eng	eng	The cat is purring in my lap. 	The cat's purring in my lap. 
eng	eng	I'm afraid that we have a little problem here. 	I'm afraid we have a little problem here. 
eng	eng	I am terribly busy because the report deadline is near. 	I'm terribly busy because the report deadline is near. 
eng	eng	Put a shirt on. 	Put on a shirt. 
eng	eng	That's not the main reason Tom needed to do that. 	That isn't the main reason Tom needed to do that. 
eng	eng	Put everything that you don't want in this box. 	Put everything you don't want in this box. 
eng	eng	I'll make sure no one hears about this incident. 	I'll make sure nobody hears about this incident. 
eng	eng	You're not allowed to smoke in here. 	You aren't allowed to smoke in here. 
eng	eng	I'm afraid that we have a problem here. 	I'm afraid we have a problem here. 
eng	eng	I am very sensitive to the cold. 	I'm very sensitive to the cold. 
eng	eng	You are watching TV all the time. 	You're watching TV all the time. 
eng	eng	Where is Monaco? 	Where's Monaco? 
eng	eng	No one would say it that way. 	Nobody would say it that way. 
eng	eng	Tom admitted that he had taken bribes. 	Tom admitted that he'd taken bribes. 
eng	eng	I am engaged in AIDS research. 	I'm engaged in AIDS research. 
eng	eng	I handed Tom a cup of coffee. 	I handed a cup of coffee to Tom. 
eng	eng	It is a draughty house. 	It's a draughty house. 
eng	eng	I don't have anybody to practice my French with. 	I don't have anyone to practice my French with. 
eng	eng	Tom told me he wasn't Mary's son. 	Tom told me that he wasn't Mary's son. 
eng	eng	I don't think that anybody could survive that. 	I don't think that anyone could survive that. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	You're never right! 	You're never right. 
eng	eng	The book Tom lent me was interesting. 	The book that Tom lent me was interesting. 
eng	eng	Tom said he hadn't seen anyone. 	Tom said that he hadn't seen anyone. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Tom could have been kinder. 	Tom could've been kinder. 
eng	eng	I guess we won't be seeing Tom anytime soon. 	I guess that we won't be seeing Tom anytime soon. 
eng	eng	No one believes Tom. 	Nobody believes Tom. 
eng	eng	Tom said he saw a ghost in the attic. 	Tom said that he saw a ghost in the attic. 
eng	eng	That was the only thing they asked us to do. 	That was the only thing that they asked us to do. 
eng	eng	Everybody stopped to see what had happened. 	Everyone stopped to see what had happened. 
eng	eng	That isn't my intent. 	That's not my intent. 
eng	eng	I think my idea is better. 	I think that my idea is better. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing Tom found. 	That's not the only thing that Tom found. 
eng	eng	Everyone was scared. 	Everybody was scared. 
eng	eng	I wonder what Tom did with the money he found. 	I wonder what Tom did with the money that he found. 
eng	eng	I'm pretty sure we shouldn't have taken a right back there. 	I'm pretty sure that we shouldn't have taken a right back there. 
eng	eng	That isn't the way that I want to do that. 	That's not the way that I want to do that. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	I think it's broken. 	I think that it's broken. 
eng	eng	It's difficult to love somebody when it isn't clear whether or not the other person loves you the same way. 	It's difficult to love somebody when it's not clear whether or not the other person loves you the same way. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing Tom did. 	That's not the only thing Tom did. 
eng	eng	Tom sent Mary a Valentine's Day card. 	Tom sent a Valentine's Day card to Mary. 
eng	eng	What will our future be like? 	What'll our future be like? 
eng	eng	Make sure you don't leave your umbrella on the bus. 	Make sure that you don't leave your umbrella on the bus. 
eng	eng	I'm glad that Tom wasn't injured in the accident. 	I'm glad Tom wasn't injured in the accident. 
eng	eng	We took off our boots. 	We took our boots off. 
eng	eng	Tom pretended he was listening. 	Tom pretended that he was listening. 
eng	eng	Tom made Mary a drink. 	Tom made a drink for Mary. 
eng	eng	Tom was with somebody. 	Tom was with someone. 
eng	eng	Tom caught flies and tore off their wings. 	Tom caught flies and tore their wings off. 
eng	eng	If it's something you can do, do it. 	If it's something that you can do, do it. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	We know that it's our own fault. 	We know it's our own fault. 
eng	eng	A sentence can never have too many translations. 	No sentence can ever have too many translations. 
eng	eng	Tom knows that he has to support Mary. 	Tom knows he has to support Mary. 
eng	eng	I know Tom knows I know. 	I know Tom knows that I know. 
eng	eng	I doubt that it'll please Tom. 	I doubt it'll please Tom. 
eng	eng	Hand me the gun. 	Hand the gun to me. 
eng	eng	Tom sent Mary roses on Valentine's Day. 	Tom sent roses to Mary on Valentine's Day. 
eng	eng	Tom sent Mary gifts. 	Tom sent gifts to Mary. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	Tom said that his grandparents were bank robbers. 	Tom said his grandparents were bank robbers. 
eng	eng	Everybody thinks that Tom is a genius. 	Everyone thinks Tom is a genius. 
eng	eng	It's difficult to love somebody when it isn't clear whether or not the other person loves you the same way. 	It's difficult to love someone when it isn't clear whether or not the other person loves you the same way. 
eng	eng	That's not something I'm prepared to do. 	That isn't something I'm prepared to do. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	It's not clear who was behind the attack. 	It isn't clear who was behind the attack. 
eng	eng	My boss doesn't think I am equal to the job. 	My boss doesn't think I'm equal to the job. 
eng	eng	It will be a hot day. 	It'll be a hot day. 
eng	eng	Rice does not contain gluten. 	Rice doesn't contain gluten. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom knows that I know. 	I know Tom knows that I know. 
eng	eng	I hope Tom hasn't given up hope. 	I hope that Tom hasn't given up hope. 
eng	eng	Tom's not a thief. 	Tom is not a thief. 
eng	eng	Tom was afraid somebody would recognize him. 	Tom was afraid that someone would recognize him. 
eng	eng	You will work on the beach. 	You'll work on the beach. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	Tom couldn't buy what Mary needed. 	Tom wasn't able to buy what Mary needed. 
eng	eng	The walls of the house are pale yellow, the shutters rust-coloured. 	The walls of the house are pale yellow, the shutters rust-colored. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	Tom is eating the blackberries that he picked this afternoon. 	Tom is eating the blackberries he picked this afternoon. 
eng	eng	Mary took Tom for an idiot. 	Mary thought Tom was an idiot. 
eng	eng	Tom was afraid that someone would recognize him. 	Tom was afraid that somebody would recognize him. 
eng	eng	Water is comprised of hydrogen and oxygen. 	Water is made of hydrogen and oxygen. 
eng	eng	That's not something that I need. 	That isn't something I need. 
eng	eng	No one ever really leaves you. 	Nobody ever really leaves you. 
eng	eng	That man over there wearing a baseball cap is staring at you. 	That man over there that's wearing a baseball cap is staring at you. 
eng	eng	That'll do for the time being. 	That will do for the time being. 
eng	eng	We gave all our money away. 	We gave away all our money. 
eng	eng	That's not something that I need. 	That isn't something that I need. 
eng	eng	Tom offered Mary his sandwich. 	Tom offered his sandwich to Mary. 
eng	eng	There are questions that no one can answer. 	There are questions no one can answer. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom is in his garden. 	I think Tom is in his garden. 
eng	eng	It's nearly the same! 	It's nearly the same. 
eng	eng	I gave Tom a bicycle. 	I gave a bicycle to Tom. 
eng	eng	Tell someone who cares. 	Tell somebody who cares. 
eng	eng	No one told me that you were waiting for me. 	Nobody told me you were waiting for me. 
eng	eng	I think Tom and Mary would have helped us if they had been there. 	I think that Tom and Mary would've helped us if they'd been there. 
eng	eng	Someone told me you'd died. 	Somebody told me that you'd died. 
eng	eng	My car cost a lot more than Tom's did. 	My car cost a lot more than Tom's car. 
eng	eng	We're not like Tom and Mary. 	We aren't like Tom and Mary. 
eng	eng	Mary knows that all she has to do is snap her fingers and Tom will come running. 	Mary knows all she has to do is snap her fingers and Tom will come running. 
eng	eng	I don't think that I'm better than Tom. 	I don't think I'm better than Tom. 
eng	eng	Koalas are not bears. 	Koalas aren't bears. 
eng	eng	That's not exactly true, is it? 	That isn't exactly true, is it? 
eng	eng	Do you know anyone who plays the guitar? 	Do you know anybody who plays the guitar? 
eng	eng	The ball went out for a throw. 	The ball went out for a throw-in. 
eng	eng	It's hard to catch a rabbit with your bare hands. 	It's difficult to catch a rabbit with your bare hands. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	I don't think that Tom will forget this. 	I don't think Tom will forget this. 
eng	eng	It's possible that Tom came here when he was young. 	It's possible Tom came here when he was young. 
eng	eng	Cheer up! Things are not as bad as you think. 	Cheer up! Things aren't as bad as you think. 
eng	eng	I am in the second year of high school. 	I'm in the second year of high school. 
eng	eng	I am in favor of the proposition. 	I'm in favor of the proposition. 
eng	eng	Tom isn't antisocial. 	Tom's not antisocial. 
eng	eng	I was kind of surprised Tom said he didn't know how to do that. 	I was kind of surprised Tom said that he didn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	What is Tom so afraid of? 	What's Tom so afraid of? 
eng	eng	It has been sold. 	It's been sold. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	They rang. 	They phoned. 
eng	eng	Muri arranged the letters on the front of my letterbox in the form of the golden ratio. 	Muri arranged the letters on the front of her letterbox in the form of the golden ratio. 
eng	eng	I'm reading the book you gave me. 	I'm reading the book that you gave me. 
eng	eng	Do you really believe that it's going to be easy to do that? 	Do you really believe it's going to be easy to do that? 
eng	eng	Nobody here wants to hurt Tom. 	No one here wants to hurt Tom. 
eng	eng	It's a miracle that Tom survived the accident. 	It's a miracle Tom survived the accident. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Tom wasn't sure he'd see Mary again. 	Tom wasn't sure that he'd see Mary again. 
eng	eng	Tom is hoping Mary can help John. 	Tom is hoping that Mary can help John. 
eng	eng	Wearing her platforms, Mary was a head taller than Tom. 	With her platforms on, Mary was a head taller than Tom. 
eng	eng	Don't make the same mistake I made. 	Don't make the same mistake that I made. 
eng	eng	That is a boring tie. 	That's a boring tie. 
eng	eng	I sure hope Tom is doing that now. 	I sure hope that Tom is doing that now. 
eng	eng	Try not to make the same mistakes I made. 	Try not to make the same mistakes that I made. 
eng	eng	Let's hope that isn't going to happen. 	Let's hope that that's not going to happen. 
eng	eng	If Tom doesn't help you, I will help you. 	If Tom doesn't help you, I'll help you. 
eng	eng	There is a café on the second floor. 	There's a café on the second floor. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	That isn't Tom's passport. 	That's not Tom's passport. 
eng	eng	Don't forget to bring a raincoat! 	Don't forget to bring a raincoat. 
eng	eng	The journalists present understood the irony in her words. 	The journalists who were present understood the irony in her words. 
eng	eng	Tom saw somebody coming. 	Tom saw someone coming. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom can prove it. 	I think Tom can prove it. 
eng	eng	Tom said Mary felt sick. 	Tom said that Mary felt sick. 
eng	eng	If I don't do this, someone else will have to do it. 	If I don't do this, somebody else will have to do it. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't let Mary see the letters John had sent him. 	Tom didn't let Mary see the letters that John had sent him. 
eng	eng	Dan is interested in Inuit people. 	Dan is interested in Aleut people. 
eng	eng	Tom told me that he thought Mary had been suspended. 	Tom told me he thought Mary had been suspended. 
eng	eng	Do you think there's a chance that Tom is actually right? 	Do you think there's a chance Tom is actually right? 
eng	eng	There is a time and place for everything. 	There's a time and place for everything. 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason that Tom ought to have done that. 	That isn't the main reason Tom ought to have done that. 
eng	eng	Why don't we buy Tom a bicycle? 	Why don't we buy a bicycle for Tom? 
eng	eng	Tom is sure to complain. 	Tom's sure to complain. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't fill out the form correctly. 	Tom didn't fill the form out correctly. 
eng	eng	Tom gave his camera to Mary. 	Tom gave Mary his camera. 
eng	eng	Tom explains things better than Mary. 	Tom explains things better than Mary does. 
eng	eng	Let's hope that that isn't going to happen. 	Let's hope that's not going to happen. 
eng	eng	Tom bought a refracting telescope. 	Tom bought a refractor telescope. 
eng	eng	Tom denied that he was the one who'd left the door open. 	Tom denied he was the one who'd left the door open. 
eng	eng	Tom told me he wasn't interested in doing that. 	Tom told me that he wasn't interested in doing that. 
eng	eng	I think somebody spiked the punch. 	I think that somebody spiked the punch. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing Tom found. 	That isn't the only thing that Tom found. 
eng	eng	Will you look after my dog while I am away? 	Will you look after my dog while I'm away? 
eng	eng	Someone lives there. 	Someone's living there. 
eng	eng	Do we have a map? 	Have we got a map? 
eng	eng	I was kind of surprised when Tom said that he didn't know how to do that. 	I was kind of surprised Tom said he didn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom thinks that I think that. 	I think Tom thinks I think that. 
eng	eng	Everyone thinks that Tom is a genius. 	Everyone thinks Tom is a genius. 
eng	eng	You're in the library. 	You are in the library. 
eng	eng	I think I should tell Tom that we won't do that anymore. 	I think I should tell Tom we won't do that anymore. 
eng	eng	Tom made us drinks. 	Tom made drinks for us. 
eng	eng	I didn't know Tom was fasting. 	I didn't know that Tom was fasting. 
eng	eng	The door to the hall stood wide open. 	The hall door stood wide open. 
eng	eng	It isn't possible to change the past. 	It's not possible to change the past. 
eng	eng	That isn't something that I'd do. 	That isn't something I'd do. 
eng	eng	No one knows what will happen tomorrow. 	Nobody knows what'll happen tomorrow. 
eng	eng	I'd hoped that Tom would be able to prevent that from happening. 	I'd hoped Tom would be able to prevent that from happening. 
eng	eng	All Americans think they are going to be millionaires some day. 	All Americans think they're going to be millionaires some day. 
eng	eng	There isn't any evidence that that ever happened. 	There isn't any evidence that ever happened. 
eng	eng	I think you meant to send this message to somebody else. 	I think you meant to send this message to someone else. 
eng	eng	I wish that I hadn't forgotten to buy eggs. 	I wish I hadn't forgotten to buy eggs. 
eng	eng	Trust your heart! 	Trust your heart. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	Would you mind if I turned off the radio? 	Would you mind if I turned the radio off? 
eng	eng	Tom knew that Mary was wrong. 	Tom knew Mary was wrong. 
eng	eng	I see no reason that we need to wait until Tom gets here to start drinking. 	I see no reason we need to wait until Tom gets here to start drinking. 
eng	eng	This isn't something that I'd planned to do. 	This isn't something I'd planned to do. 
eng	eng	My psychiatrist is Dr. Jackson. 	My psychiatrist is Dr Jackson. 
eng	eng	Close the window. There's a draught. 	Close the window. There's a draft. 
eng	eng	That isn't part of the deal. 	That's not part of the deal. 
eng	eng	She's ugly. 	She is ugly. 
eng	eng	Tom told everybody he had done that. 	Tom told everybody that he had done that. 
eng	eng	Didn't you know that Tom didn't understand French? 	Didn't you know Tom didn't understand French? 
eng	eng	Make sure you don't forget your umbrella. 	Make sure that you don't forget your umbrella. 
eng	eng	If you see Tom today, please tell him that he's invited to my party, too. 	If you see Tom today, please tell him he's invited to my party, too. 
eng	eng	I've been looking forward to it! 	I've been looking forward to it. 
eng	eng	That isn't my experience. 	That's not my experience. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	How many kanji does the average Japanese adult know? 	How many Chinese characters does the average Japanese adult know? 
eng	eng	Tom said you needed to see me. 	Tom said that you needed to see me. 
eng	eng	Is it true that Tom can speak French. 	Is it true Tom can speak French. 
eng	eng	I thought Tom was a native speaker. 	I thought that Tom was a native speaker. 
eng	eng	It's enough to drive you mad! 	It's enough to drive you mad. 
eng	eng	Give Tom the money that you owe him. 	Give Tom the money you owe him. 
eng	eng	That isn't a tough decision. 	That's not a tough decision. 
eng	eng	We put on our coats. 	We put our coats on. 
eng	eng	Anyone who wants to may sign up. 	Anybody who wants to may sign up. 
eng	eng	Did anyone other than Tom talk to Mary? 	Did anybody other than Tom talk to Mary? 
eng	eng	"What kind of person was Tom?" "I'll put it this way: somebody who nobody here misses." 	"What kind of person was Tom?" "I'll put it this way: someone who no one here misses." 
eng	eng	Tom will make sure that everything goes smoothly. 	Tom will make sure everything goes smoothly. 
eng	eng	We told Tom that he wasn't welcome here. 	We told Tom he wasn't welcome here. 
eng	eng	It isn't really that important. 	It's not really that important. 
eng	eng	Make sure you do that before you go home. 	Make sure that you do that before you go home. 
eng	eng	Let's assume that it's true. 	Let's assume it's true. 
eng	eng	That isn't something I want to think about right now. 	That isn't something that I want to think about right now. 
eng	eng	That's not the main reason Tom ought to have done that. 	That isn't the main reason Tom ought to have done that. 
eng	eng	She's phoned. 	She's rung. 
eng	eng	Tom said Mary knew she might have to do that with you today. 	Tom said Mary knew that she might have to do that with you today. 
eng	eng	Pandas are not as dangerous as lions. 	Pandas aren't as dangerous as lions 
eng	eng	Tom didn't get the promotion that he was expecting to get. 	Tom didn't get the promotion he was expecting to get. 
eng	eng	One of the two has to leave. 	One of the two must leave. 
eng	eng	I tried to convince Tom to do that, but he said that he wasn't interested. 	I tried to convince Tom to do that, but he said he wasn't interested. 
eng	eng	Everyone says Tom is a nice person. 	Everyone says that Tom is a nice person. 
eng	eng	We all know more than we think we know. 	We all know more than we think we do. 
eng	eng	She was wearing a red silk dress. 	She had on a red silk dress. 
eng	eng	If you need me, I will come over immediately. 	If you need me, I'll come over right away. 
eng	eng	That isn't the response that I was expecting. 	That's not the response that I was expecting. 
eng	eng	For your sake, I hope that doesn't happen. 	For your sake, I hope that that doesn't happen. 
eng	eng	Take your hat off when you enter a temple. 	Take off your hat when you enter a temple. 
eng	eng	Do you think that people drink more in a recession? 	Do you think people drink more in a recession? 
eng	eng	I think Tom didn't even notice that. 	I think that Tom didn't even notice that. 
eng	eng	Don't turn off the engine. 	Don't turn the engine off. 
eng	eng	I hope Tom gets to do that. 	I hope that Tom gets to do that. 
eng	eng	Tom and Mary both got rich. 	Both Tom and Mary got rich. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason that Tom didn't want to do that. 	That isn't the main reason Tom didn't want to do that. 
eng	eng	We just hope that it never happens again. 	We just hope it never happens again. 
eng	eng	She was wearing a red silk dress. 	She had a red silk dress on. 
eng	eng	He enjoys going for walks in the countryside. 	He enjoys walking in the countryside. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't take his tie off. 	Tom didn't take off his tie. 
eng	eng	We are always learning something. 	We're always learning something. 
eng	eng	She's been making biscuits. 	She has been making biscuits. 
eng	eng	Take your shoes off before entering a temple. 	Take off your shoes before entering a temple. 
eng	eng	I hope you'll put this to good use. 	I hope that you'll put this to good use. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he hadn't seen anybody. 	Tom said that he hadn't seen anyone. 
eng	eng	Who told you that I didn't like Tom? 	Who told you I didn't like Tom? 
eng	eng	There's a café on the second floor. 	There's a cafe on the second floor. 
eng	eng	That isn't the way that I do that. 	That isn't the way I do that. 
eng	eng	I hope that Tom doesn't think that we hate him. 	I hope Tom doesn't think that we hate him. 
eng	eng	No one can answer this question. 	Nobody can answer this question. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	I like getting free doughnuts. 	I like getting free donuts. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	We will paint the fence tomorrow. 	We'll paint the fence tomorrow. 
eng	eng	Who's been sending you these pictures? 	Who's been sending these pictures to you? 
eng	eng	Tom was afraid someone would recognize him. 	Tom was afraid somebody would recognize him. 
eng	eng	Don't you see that you're wrong? 	Don't you see you're wrong? 
eng	eng	I doubt that it will please Tom. 	I doubt that it'll please Tom. 
eng	eng	Tom made sure that everything was set up correctly. 	Tom made sure everything was set up right. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Tom made sure everything was set up correctly. 	Tom made sure everything was set up right. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	No one was in the library. 	Nobody was in the library. 
eng	eng	Where is he going for Christmas? 	Where's he going for Christmas? 
eng	eng	It's time to wash off that funk, Tom. You stink. 	It's time to wash that funk off, Tom. You stink. 
eng	eng	No one remembers how it all began. 	Nobody remembers how it all began. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	This is the last time I'll ever do this. 	This is the last time that I'll ever do this. 
eng	eng	I had hardly started to work when it began to rain. 	I'd hardly started to work when it began to rain. 
eng	eng	You're in a library. 	You are in a library. 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason Tom didn't want to do that. 	That's not the main reason that Tom didn't want to do that. 
eng	eng	This isn't the first time that we've done this. 	This isn't the first time we've done this. 
eng	eng	I don't think anyone could survive that. 	I don't think that anyone could survive that. 
eng	eng	Tom said that everyone was very drunk. 	Tom said everybody was very drunk. 
eng	eng	I am pleased that you have passed the exam. 	I'm pleased that you have passed the exam. 
eng	eng	Tom doesn't think we can put this off. 	Tom doesn't think that we can put this off. 
eng	eng	That's not the sort of thing that we like to do. 	That isn't the sort of thing that we like to do. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	I think that you meant to send this message to somebody else. 	I think that you meant to send this message to someone else. 
eng	eng	I got a bicycle for Tom. 	I got Tom a bicycle. 
eng	eng	We all know that dogs like to gnaw on bones. 	We all know dogs like to gnaw on bones. 
eng	eng	She has rung. 	She has phoned. 
eng	eng	That's not the main reason Tom didn't want to do that. 	That's not the main reason that Tom didn't want to do that. 
eng	eng	Don't tell anybody that I did that. 	Don't tell anybody I did that. 
eng	eng	Tom told me Mary was drunk. 	Tom told me that Mary was drunk. 
eng	eng	Tom said he didn't want to come in. 	Tom said that he didn't want to come in. 
eng	eng	Tom's parents said that they wouldn't let him go to Australia alone. 	Tom's parents said they wouldn't let him go to Australia alone. 
eng	eng	That's not the main reason Tom shouldn't do that. 	That's not the main reason that Tom shouldn't do that. 
eng	eng	You're lucky you weren't injured. 	You're lucky that you weren't injured. 
eng	eng	How would you feel if Tom told you that he loved you? 	How would you feel if Tom told you he loved you? 
eng	eng	That's not something I'd joke about. 	That isn't something that I'd joke about. 
eng	eng	It's not too late to turn back. 	It isn't too late to turn back. 
eng	eng	I think that you meant to send this message to somebody else. 	I think you meant to send this message to someone else. 
eng	eng	Doing that shouldn't be hard. 	Doing that shouldn't be difficult. 
eng	eng	I hope Tom never does that. 	I hope that Tom never does that. 
eng	eng	I am going to be fourteen. 	I'm going to be fourteen. 
eng	eng	I thought that you went shopping yesterday. 	I thought you went shopping yesterday. 
eng	eng	"What kind of person was Tom?" "I'll put it this way: someone who no one here misses." 	"What kind of person was Tom?" "I'll put it this way: somebody who no one here misses." 
eng	eng	Tom hopes Mary doesn't get deported. 	Tom hopes that Mary doesn't get deported. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't know that would embarrass Mary. 	Tom didn't know that that would embarrass Mary. 
eng	eng	Tom doesn't think Mary will lose. 	Tom doesn't think that Mary will lose. 
eng	eng	There will be another opportunity. 	There'll be another opportunity. 
eng	eng	I think someone took my bag. 	I think that someone took my bag. 
eng	eng	Did you know that Tom was Catholic? 	Did you know Tom was Catholic? 
eng	eng	Tom bought enough food for everyone. 	Tom bought enough food for everybody. 
eng	eng	Tom said that everybody was very drunk. 	Tom said everyone was very drunk. 
eng	eng	Tom said he didn't really care. 	Tom said that he didn't really care. 
eng	eng	Tom claims that he knows how to do that. 	Tom claims he knows how to do that. 
eng	eng	I would've done it for you if you'd asked. 	I would've done it for you if you'd asked me to. 
eng	eng	That isn't a public-domain song. 	That's not a public-domain song. 
eng	eng	Has anyone ever told you that you stop breathing when you are asleep? 	Has anyone ever told you that you stop breathing when you're asleep? 
eng	eng	Tom regularly cleaned his ears out with Q-tips. 	Tom regularly cleaned his ears out with cotton swabs. 
eng	eng	Tom did a lot of things that he shouldn't have. 	Tom did a lot of things that he shouldn't have done. 
eng	eng	I heard someone yelling and wondered who it was. 	I heard somebody yelling and wondered who it was. 
eng	eng	I have a flat tyre. 	I've got a flat tyre. 
eng	eng	Nobody knows what's happened to Tom. 	No one knows what's happened to Tom. 
eng	eng	Tom is not good at managing his finances. 	Tom isn't good at managing his finances. 
eng	eng	Thou shalt not pass. 	Thou shalt not pass! 
eng	eng	That isn't Tom's only secret. 	That's not Tom's only secret. 
eng	eng	I wish you'd do what I've asked you to do. 	I wish that you'd do what I've asked you to do. 
eng	eng	The most precious good is liberty; it must be defended with faith and courage. 	The most precious good is freedom; it must be defended with faith and courage. 
eng	eng	There are many things you don't know. 	There are many things that you don't know. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	Tom went to get donuts. 	Tom went to get doughnuts. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't like the sandwich that Mary made for him. 	Tom didn't like the sandwich Mary made for him. 
eng	eng	Tom's a polyglot. 	Tom is a polyglot. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes that Mary won't be chosen to do that. 	Tom hopes Mary won't be chosen to do that. 
eng	eng	What have you bought her? 	What've you bought her? 
eng	eng	Don't tell anyone I did that. 	Don't tell anybody I did that. 
eng	eng	It's surprising you haven't heard anything about what's going to happen. 	It's surprising that you haven't heard anything about what's going to happen. 
eng	eng	I will visit Tom some other time. 	I'll visit Tom some other time. 
eng	eng	I don't think anybody could survive that. 	I don't think that anybody could survive that. 
eng	eng	I think someone spiked the punch. 	I think that somebody spiked the punch. 
eng	eng	I'm glad Tom didn't see us. 	I'm glad that Tom didn't see us. 
eng	eng	That's not something that I'm prepared to do. 	That's not something I'm prepared to do. 
eng	eng	It doesn't look as if Tom's here. 	It doesn't look as if Tom is here. 
eng	eng	I will accomplish that no matter what the cost. 	I'll accomplish that no matter what the cost. 
eng	eng	We can trust Tom not to tell anyone. 	We can trust Tom not to tell anybody. 
eng	eng	I wish I'd had more time to speak. 	I wish that I'd had more time to speak. 
eng	eng	If it's okay for her to buy a knife, then why on earth can't I? 	If it's OK for her to buy a knife, then why on earth can't I? 
eng	eng	Tom gave Mary his old drum set. 	Tom gave his old drum set to Mary. 
eng	eng	Tom made some peanut butter and jam sandwiches for us. 	Tom made us some peanut butter and jam sandwiches. 
eng	eng	I'm pretty sure we should've taken a right back there. 	I'm pretty sure that we should've taken a right back there. 
eng	eng	I am used to low temperatures. 	I am accustomed to low temperatures. 
eng	eng	That's something we tried to avoid. 	That's something that we tried to avoid. 
eng	eng	I couldn't get through to anybody. 	I couldn't get through to anyone. 
eng	eng	I didn't know that Tom drank so much. 	I didn't know Tom drank so much. 
eng	eng	Why's everyone laughing? 	Why's everybody laughing? 
eng	eng	I don't think that Tom heard us. 	I don't think Tom heard us. 
eng	eng	I heard that Tom is planning on going to Boston next weekend. 	I heard Tom is planning on going to Boston next weekend 
eng	eng	I wasn't aware someone was watching me. 	I wasn't aware that somebody was watching me. 
eng	eng	Come what may, I am determined to accomplish it. 	Come what may, I'm determined to accomplish it. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes that nobody will ask him to do that. 	Tom hopes nobody will ask him to do that. 
eng	eng	The news said Tom Jackson died of a heart attack. 	The news said that Tom Jackson died of a heart attack. 
eng	eng	The caterpillar transforms itself into a butterfly. 	The caterpiller is transforming itself into a butterfly. 
eng	eng	We sold Tom our car. 	We sold our car to Tom. 
eng	eng	We are drinking milk. 	We're drinking milk. 
eng	eng	She has phoned. 	She's phoned. 
eng	eng	Is it true that Boston is a very expensive city? 	Is it true Boston is a very expensive city? 
eng	eng	I've been told that you're a very good French speaker. 	I've been told you're a very good French speaker. 
eng	eng	Tom claims that he's a handwriting expert. 	Tom claims he's a handwriting expert. 
eng	eng	She's been baking biscuits. 	She has been baking biscuits. 
eng	eng	Tom usually wears jeans and a white t-shirt. 	Tom usually wears jeans and a white T-shirt. 
eng	eng	I'd never say something like that. 	I would never say something like that. 
eng	eng	We don't have time for this, Tom! 	We don't have time for this, Tom. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	I'll make sure no one hears about this incident. 	I'll make sure that nobody hears about this incident. 
eng	eng	I would have told you earlier, but I didn't think you'd understand. 	I would've told you earlier, but I didn't think you'd understand. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	She writes songs like that in her sleep. 	She can write songs like that in her sleep. 
eng	eng	I've already lost the pen that I bought yesterday. 	I've already lost the pen I bought yesterday. 
eng	eng	That's not all Tom wanted. 	That isn't all Tom wanted. 
eng	eng	I know I have many enemies here. 	I know I have a lot of enemies here. 
eng	eng	If Tom hadn't done it, somebody else would've done it. 	If Tom hadn't done it, someone else would've. 
eng	eng	Someone forced open the door. 	Somebody forced the door open. 
eng	eng	If it were not for the sun, we would all die. 	If it weren't for the sun, we'd all die. 
eng	eng	That's not the only thing Tom found. 	That isn't the only thing that Tom found. 
eng	eng	Tom mended the dripping tap. 	Tom repaired the dripping tap. 
eng	eng	Why didn't you tell me that you got fired? 	Why didn't you tell me you got fired? 
eng	eng	Tom bought his children a swing set. 	Tom bought a swing set for his children. 
eng	eng	That's a problem I know how to solve. 	There's a problem I know how to solve. 
eng	eng	We're hoping that nobody gets injured. 	We're hoping nobody gets injured. 
eng	eng	Tom got drinks for us. 	Tom got us drinks. 
eng	eng	That's not Tom. It's his brother. 	That isn't Tom. It's his brother. 
eng	eng	Tom was kind of surprised when Mary said she didn't know how to do that. 	Tom was kind of surprised when Mary said that she didn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	Do you think we could survive a nuclear attack? 	Do you think that we could survive a nuclear attack? 
eng	eng	I was afraid that Tom would kill me. 	I was afraid Tom would kill me. 
eng	eng	That's not the only thing I want to do. 	That's not the only thing that I want to do. 
eng	eng	Tom still hopes he'll be allowed to do that. 	Tom still hopes that he'll be allowed to do that. 
eng	eng	You can invite anyone you want to. 	You can invite anybody you want. 
eng	eng	Dan is interested in Inuit people. 	Dan is interested in Eskimos. 
eng	eng	We would be glad if Tom left. 	We'd be glad if Tom left. 
eng	eng	I hope we can avoid making the same stupid mistakes we made last time. 	I hope that we can avoid making the same stupid mistakes we made last time. 
eng	eng	Even though Tom said that he was happy, he wasn't. 	Even though Tom said he was happy, he wasn't. 
eng	eng	Tom was afraid someone would recognize him. 	Tom was afraid that somebody would recognize him. 
eng	eng	The bottle of wine that I bought this afternoon is in the fridge. 	The bottle of wine I bought this afternoon is in the fridge. 
eng	eng	That's not on the list. 	That isn't on the list. 
eng	eng	We hope this time it'll work. 	We hope that this time it'll work. 
eng	eng	Tom said he didn't see anybody. 	Tom said that he didn't see anyone. 
eng	eng	Wipe off the table. 	Wipe the table off. 
eng	eng	This is the same hotel I stayed in three years ago. 	This is the same hotel that I stayed in three years ago. 
eng	eng	He spent about two hours watching telly. 	He spent about two hours watching television. 
eng	eng	That's the reason I'm late. 	That's the reason that I'm late. 
eng	eng	I wasn't aware someone was watching me. 	I wasn't aware somebody was watching me. 
eng	eng	That's not a word that I'd ever use. 	That isn't a word that I'd ever use. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	Tom usually doesn't listen to anyone. 	Tom usually doesn't listen to anybody. 
eng	eng	It's difficult to love somebody when it's not clear whether or not the other person loves you the same way. 	It's difficult to love someone when it isn't clear whether or not the other person loves you the same way. 
eng	eng	He went to bed without having had his tea. 	He went to bed without having had his dinner. 
eng	eng	This isn't something I'd planned on. 	This isn't something that I'd planned on. 
eng	eng	She is not at home. 	She's not in. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	"Stop making so much noise, Tom! I can't sleep." "I'm doing the washing up." "If you can't do it any quieter, do it later, please!" 	"Don't make such a racket, Tom! I can't sleep." "I'm washing up." "If you can't do it any quieter, do it later, please!" 
eng	eng	Who will prepare the food? 	Who'll prepare the food? 
eng	eng	Do you really think you should be taking advice from someone like Tom? 	Do you really think that you should be taking advice from someone like Tom? 
eng	eng	We took our gloves off. 	We took off our gloves. 
eng	eng	I love that! 	I love that. 
eng	eng	Send reinforcements! 	Send reinforcements. 
eng	eng	That's how it works, and the only way it can work. 	That's how it works, and the only way that it can work. 
eng	eng	She has changed. 	She's changed. 
eng	eng	I'm willing to do anything you ask me. 	I'm willing to do anything you ask me to do. 
eng	eng	Tom is no Rembrandt. 	Tom's no Rembrandt. 
eng	eng	I bet I'll see Tom there. 	I bet that I'll see Tom there. 
eng	eng	Tom's visiting his brother. 	Tom is visiting his brother. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	Tom wants everyone to like him. 	Tom wants everybody to like him. 
eng	eng	I don't think this is French. 	I don't think that this is French. 
eng	eng	That isn't the reason that Tom wants to do that. 	That isn't the reason Tom wants to do that. 
eng	eng	We're sorry we weren't able to help. 	We're sorry that we weren't able to help. 
eng	eng	You'd better hope that no one saw you do that. 	You'd better hope no one saw you do that. 
eng	eng	She quickly fastened her coat. 	She quickly fastened up her coat. 
eng	eng	Don't tell anyone that I did that. 	Don't tell anybody I did that. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he was feeling good. 	Tom said he was feeling good. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't realize that his life was in danger. 	Tom didn't realize his life was in danger. 
eng	eng	That isn't something I can do right now. 	That isn't something that I can do right now. 
eng	eng	Most people say that they want to eat healthier. 	Most people say they want to eat healthier. 
eng	eng	I think Tom should see a therapist. 	I think that Tom should see a therapist. 
eng	eng	They say travel broadens the mind. 	They say that travel broadens the mind. 
eng	eng	That isn't my intention. 	That's not my intention. 
eng	eng	I wish I could hug you. 	I wish that I could hug you. 
eng	eng	No one will likely even notice. 	Nobody will likely even notice. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom thinks that I think that. 	I think that Tom thinks I think that. 
eng	eng	We have had a lot of snow and I am very happy. 	We've had a lot of snow and I'm very happy. 
eng	eng	I think that I'm a good athlete. 	I think I'm a good athlete. 
eng	eng	Yay. 	Huzzah! 
eng	eng	"There's no such thing as a stupid question." "How did Leonardo DiCaprio invent the Mona Lisa if there was no color in the 1800s?" "I stand corrected." 	"Stupid questions don't exist." "How did Leonardo DiCaprio invent the Mona Lisa if there was no color in the 19th century?" "I take back what I said." 
eng	eng	Tom says that he hasn't heard anything from Mary. 	Tom says he hasn't heard anything from Mary. 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason that Tom shouldn't have done that. 	That's not the main reason that Tom shouldn't have done that. 
eng	eng	I'm hoping that's the case. 	I'm hoping that that's the case. 
eng	eng	If Tom doesn't help you, I will. 	If Tom doesn't help you, I'll help you. 
eng	eng	I hope this isn't the last time we get to do this. 	I hope that this isn't the last time we get to do this. 
eng	eng	Tom wanted to buy something nice for Mary. 	Tom wanted to buy Mary something nice. 
eng	eng	I am dead tired from walking around all day. 	I'm dead tired from walking around all day. 
eng	eng	It has become very warm. 	It's become very warm. 
eng	eng	Why don't we buy Tom a baseball glove? 	Why don't we buy a baseball glove for Tom? 
eng	eng	We put on our coats and hats. 	We put our coats and hats on. 
eng	eng	This is one of the trees that I want to cut down. 	This is one of the trees I want to cut down. 
eng	eng	I hope both of you get what you want. 	I hope that both of you get what you want. 
eng	eng	I think we should reduce our prices. 	I think that we should reduce our prices. 
eng	eng	Tom told me that he thought Mary had been suspended. 	Tom told me that he thought that Mary had been suspended. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing that Tom found. 	That's not the only thing that Tom found. 
eng	eng	Tom doesn't think that it will work. 	Tom doesn't think that it'll work. 
eng	eng	Tom can do that so much better than Mary. 	Tom can do that so much better than Mary can. 
eng	eng	Tom sold his bicycle to Mary. 	Tom sold Mary his bicycle. 
eng	eng	The problem is that Tom never does what he's told to do. 	The problem is Tom never does what he's told to do. 
eng	eng	I hope the police catch the guy who stabbed me. 	I hope that the police catch the guy who stabbed me. 
eng	eng	What time should I sleep tonight? 	At what time should I go to sleep tonight? 
eng	eng	If we don't find water that we can drink, we won't survive much longer. 	If we don't find water we can drink, we won't survive much longer. 
eng	eng	I'm Tom and she is Mary. 	I'm Tom, and she's Mary. 
eng	eng	That's not the response I was expecting. 	That's not the response that I was expecting. 
eng	eng	Please leave me alone. I am busy. 	Please leave me alone. I'm busy. 
eng	eng	The snowman has not melted yet. 	The snowman hasn't melted yet. 
eng	eng	Unfortunately, that rumour proved to be true. 	Unfortunately, that rumor proved to be true. 
eng	eng	We've got two dogs, three cats and a parrot. 	We have two dogs, three cats and a parrot. 
eng	eng	Tom and Mary have both left Australia. 	Both Tom and Mary have left Australia. 
eng	eng	Try that sweater on. 	Try on that sweater. 
eng	eng	The train leaves at half past two. 	The train departs at half past two. 
eng	eng	My car cost a lot more than Tom's car did. 	My car cost a lot more than Tom's car. 
eng	eng	That isn't my decision to make. 	That's not my decision to make. 
eng	eng	It was snowing the day that I was born. 	It was snowing the day I was born. 
eng	eng	I wish I'd been born a cat. 	I wish that I'd been born a cat. 
eng	eng	That's not my only problem. 	That isn't my only problem. 
eng	eng	Tom couldn't figure out how to get the box open. 	Tom wasn't able to figure out how to get the box open. 
eng	eng	The song we just sang was written by Tom Jackson. 	The song that we just sang was written by Tom Jackson. 
eng	eng	The Suez Canal links the Mediterranean and the Red Sea. 	The Suez Canal connects the Mediterranean and Red seas. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Tom is awfully sensitive. 	Tom's awfully sensitive. 
eng	eng	I just hope Tom makes it out alive. 	I just hope that Tom makes it out alive. 
eng	eng	Who is the girl who is crying? 	Who's the girl who's crying? 
eng	eng	Order a drink for me, too. 	Order me a drink,too. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing Tom did. 	That's not the only thing that Tom did. 
eng	eng	I am uncomfortable in these new shoes. 	I'm uncomfortable in these new shoes. 
eng	eng	I really hope that you didn't drink that water. 	I really hope you didn't drink that water. 
eng	eng	Tom said he needed to lose weight. 	Tom said that he needed to lose weight. 
eng	eng	Nobody understood what Tom wanted. 	No one understood what Tom wanted. 
eng	eng	He writes songs like that in his sleep. 	He can write songs like that in his sleep. 
eng	eng	Where has it gone? 	Where's it gone? 
eng	eng	Everyone except for Tom brought a surfboard. 	Everyone except Tom brought a surfboard. 
eng	eng	They say it will be another fine day today. 	They say it'll be another fine day today. 
eng	eng	I wish that my French were as good as yours. 	I wish my French were as good as yours. 
eng	eng	Someone left a stroller in front of the store. 	Somebody left a stroller in front of the store. 
eng	eng	Tom is better at explaining things than Mary is. 	Tom is better at explaining things than Mary. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	I am surprised that your family has a Japanese car. 	I'm surprised that your family has a Japanese car. 
eng	eng	I am sorry to have taken up your valuable time. 	I'm sorry to have taken up your valuable time. 
eng	eng	It's obvious Tom is angry. 	It's obvious that Tom is angry. 
eng	eng	A true friend would have warned you. 	A true friend would've warned you. 
eng	eng	Tom told me that he'd just eaten. 	Tom told me he'd just eaten. 
eng	eng	I really hope nobody saw us doing that. 	I really hope that no one saw us doing that. 
eng	eng	That's not something I'd ever do. 	That's not something that I'd ever do. 
eng	eng	Put your raincoat on. 	Put on your raincoat. 
eng	eng	I think I should probably go home. 	I think that I should probably go home. 
eng	eng	They say it's going to be another fine day today. 	They say it will be another fine day today. 
eng	eng	I forgot that today was Tom's birthday. 	I forgot today was Tom's birthday. 
eng	eng	If you're not going, I'm not either. 	If you aren't going, I'm not either. 
eng	eng	That's not logical. 	That isn't logical. 
eng	eng	That isn't something I'd ever do. 	That isn't something that I'd ever do. 
eng	eng	What is Tom still waiting for? 	What's Tom still waiting for? 
eng	eng	I hope that Tom gets a second chance. 	I hope Tom gets a second chance. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	No one was injured by the explosion. 	Nobody was injured by the explosion. 
eng	eng	I hope you're reliable. 	I hope that you're reliable. 
eng	eng	This is the first time that I've heard of this website. 	This is the first time I've heard of this website. 
eng	eng	That isn't something that I'd joke about. 	That isn't something I'd joke about. 
eng	eng	I am proud of being a doctor. 	I'm proud of being a doctor. 
eng	eng	Tom looks up to Mary as a big sister. 	Tom looks up to Mary as an older sister. 
eng	eng	I am ready to do anything for you. 	I'm ready to do anything for you. 
eng	eng	Do you think men talk about women more than women talk about men? 	Do you think that men talk about women more than women talk about men? 
eng	eng	Don't think I don't know what you're doing. 	Don't think that I don't know what you're doing. 
eng	eng	I hope I can see you tomorrow. 	I hope that I can see you tomorrow. 
eng	eng	Tom forgot to put the milk back in the fridge. 	Tom forgot to put the milk back in the refrigerator. 
eng	eng	The good ol' days weren't good for most people. 	The good old days weren't good for most people. 
eng	eng	You don't have to wait for Tom. He's not coming. 	You don't have to wait for Tom. He isn't coming. 
eng	eng	Why's everyone staring at us? 	Why's everybody staring at us? 
eng	eng	Tom might go to Boston next autumn. 	Tom might go to Boston next fall. 
eng	eng	If Tom hadn't done it, somebody else would've. 	If Tom hadn't done it, someone else would've. 
eng	eng	We do not sell draught beer. 	We don't sell draft beer. 
eng	eng	I don't think anybody could survive that. 	I don't think that anyone could survive that. 
eng	eng	Tom's the one you want to see. 	Tom is the one you want to see. 
eng	eng	Tom saw Mary talking to someone that he didn't know. 	Tom saw Mary talking to someone he didn't know. 
eng	eng	Tom is in our team now. 	Tom's in our team now. 
eng	eng	Tom must have told them something. 	Tom must've told them something. 
eng	eng	Tom can swim a lot faster than Mary. 	Tom can swim a lot faster than Mary can. 
eng	eng	I'd hoped Tom would find somebody else to help him. 	I'd hoped Tom would find someone else to help him. 
eng	eng	Tom made sure everything was set up correctly. 	Tom made sure that everything was set up right. 
eng	eng	He's mended the broken table. 	He has mended the broken table. 
eng	eng	Tom is going to the cinema with his girlfriend. 	Tom's going to the cinema with his girlfriend. 
eng	eng	I'm hoping things will improve once I get out of here. 	I'm hoping that things will improve once I get out of here. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	She has not been heard of since. 	She hasn't been heard of since. 
eng	eng	Someone lives there. 	Someone is living there. 
eng	eng	Tom thought Mary might know the answer. 	Tom thought that Mary might know the answer. 
eng	eng	Tom told me that Mary wasn't sick. 	Tom told me Mary wasn't sick. 
eng	eng	Tom Jackson is more famous than his wife is. 	Tom Jackson is more famous than his wife. 
eng	eng	It's a shame that you can't go with us. 	It's a shame you can't go with us. 
eng	eng	If you do this, you will regret it for the rest of your life. 	If you do this, you'll regret it for the rest of your life. 
eng	eng	That's the book that I thought I'd lost. 	That's the book I thought I'd lost. 
eng	eng	Tom saw Mary talking to someone that he didn't know. 	Tom saw Mary talking to somebody that he didn't know. 
eng	eng	What is making you sad? 	What's making you sad? 
eng	eng	I think someone spiked the punch. 	I think that someone spiked the punch. 
eng	eng	It's been a while since I've told you that I love you. 	It's been a while since I've told you I love you. 
eng	eng	We can't claim that this didn't happen. 	We can't claim this didn't happen. 
eng	eng	You may invite anyone you want to. 	You may invite anybody you want to. 
eng	eng	I would like to speak with your manager. 	I'd like to speak with your manager. 
eng	eng	I think we should tell Tom we won't do that anymore. 	I think that we should tell Tom that we won't do that anymore. 
eng	eng	Mum is cooking in the kitchen. 	Mum's cooking in the kitchen. 
eng	eng	I was kind of surprised when Tom said he didn't know how to do that. 	I was kind of surprised Tom said that he didn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	Mary got a tracheal shave. 	Mary got a trachea shave. 
eng	eng	I heard you went to visit Tom yesterday. 	I heard that you went to visit Tom yesterday. 
eng	eng	Tom says you set him up. 	Tom says that you set him up. 
eng	eng	That has to be proved first. 	That must be proved first. 
eng	eng	I don't think Tom can handle it. 	I don't think that Tom can handle it. 
eng	eng	You know that I'll follow you. 	You know I'll follow you. 
eng	eng	This door would not open, no matter what I did. 	This door wouldn't open, no matter what I did. 
eng	eng	Who sent you this picture? 	Who sent this picture to you? 
eng	eng	That isn't exactly romantic. 	That's not exactly romantic. 
eng	eng	We didn't take our shirts off. 	We didn't take off our shirts. 
eng	eng	I noticed Tom was shivering. 	I noticed that Tom was shivering. 
eng	eng	Somebody could see us. 	Someone could see us. 
eng	eng	Tom did as he had been instructed. 	Tom did as he'd been instructed. 
eng	eng	It's difficult to love someone when it isn't clear whether or not the other person loves you the same way. 	It's difficult to love someone when it's not clear whether or not the other person loves you the same way. 
eng	eng	Let's get out of here before someone sees us. 	Let's get out of here before somebody sees us. 
eng	eng	Where did you get your license, a cereal box? 	Where'd you get your license, a cereal box? 
eng	eng	Tom said he'd like to be a fish. 	Tom said that he'd like to be a fish. 
eng	eng	She has rung. 	She's rung. 
eng	eng	Tom soon realized he'd been tricked. 	Tom soon realized that he'd been tricked. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom was the one who spiked Mary's drink. 	I think Tom was the one who spiked Mary's drink. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't get the promotion that he was expecting. 	Tom didn't get the promotion he was expecting to get. 
eng	eng	Tom is hoping that Mary will get better. 	Tom is hoping Mary will get better. 
eng	eng	The match ended in a goalless draw. 	The match ended goalless. 
eng	eng	Did you know Tom was ambidextrous? 	Did you know that Tom was ambidextrous? 
eng	eng	Tom will be thirty next month. 	Tom will be thirty years old next month. 
eng	eng	It is an exciting city, New York. 	It's an exciting city, New York. 
eng	eng	Things will be much different from now on. 	Things will be a lot different from now on. 
eng	eng	That's a topic we've been avoiding. 	That's a topic that we've been avoiding. 
eng	eng	Tom made sure that everything was set up right. 	Tom made sure everything was set up right. 
eng	eng	Tom said he had eaten. 	Tom said he'd eaten. 
eng	eng	I feel better today, but I am not well enough to work. 	I feel better today, but I'm not well enough to work. 
eng	eng	The train's coming! 	The train's coming. 
eng	eng	I just found out that Tom is sick. 	I just found out Tom is sick. 
eng	eng	Why is everyone so nervous? 	Why's everybody so uptight? 
eng	eng	Tom ate the cupcakes that I was going to give you. 	Tom ate the cupcakes I was going to give you. 
eng	eng	Please write down what I am going to say. 	Please write down what I'm going to say. 
eng	eng	Light blue is my favourite colour. 	Light blue is my favorite color. 
eng	eng	Tom admitted he'd taken bribes. 	Tom admitted that he'd taken bribes. 
eng	eng	Tell Tom that I want him to know it was me. 	Tell Tom I want him to know it was me. 
eng	eng	This puzzle is hard. 	This puzzle is difficult. 
eng	eng	That isn't happening till October 20th. 	That isn't happening until October 20th. 
eng	eng	Tom asked me to tell you that he would wait for you to phone him. 	Tom asked me to tell you he'd wait for your call. 
eng	eng	I've heard that you're reliable. 	I've heard you're reliable. 
eng	eng	If you eat this, then I'll eat it, too. 	If you eat this, I'll eat it, too. 
eng	eng	Tom was afraid someone would recognize him. 	Tom was afraid that someone would recognize him. 
eng	eng	That isn't the response that we expected. 	That's not the response that we expected. 
eng	eng	There are several ways we could attack this problem. 	There are several ways that we could attack this problem. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Tom said he didn't see anyone. 	Tom said that he didn't see anyone. 
eng	eng	That isn't something that I need. 	That isn't something I need. 
eng	eng	It feels like something is wrong. 	It feels like something's wrong. 
eng	eng	That's a topic we've been trying to avoid. 	That's a topic that we've been trying to avoid. 
eng	eng	I hope that we can survive on our own. 	I hope we can survive on our own. 
eng	eng	I guess I spoke too soon. 	I guess that I spoke too soon. 
eng	eng	I'll teach you Spanish if you teach me Japanese. 	If you teach me Japanese, I'll teach you Spanish. 
eng	eng	This is the hut in which he lived. 	This is the hut he lived in. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom thinks I think too much. 	I think that Tom thinks that I think too much. 
eng	eng	"What kind of person was Tom?" "I'll put it this way: someone who nobody here misses." 	"What kind of person was Tom?" "I'll put it this way: someone who no one here misses." 
eng	eng	I told Tom that he should take it easy. 	I told Tom he should take it easy. 
eng	eng	I hope your dream comes true. 	I hope that your dream comes true. 
eng	eng	I do hope Tom is happy. 	I do hope that Tom is happy. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes no one will ask him to do that. 	Tom hopes nobody will ask him to do that. 
eng	eng	I'm trans. 	I'm transgender. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	I can neither write nor read. 	I can't write, and I can't read either. 
eng	eng	I really do love to travel! 	I really do love to travel. 
eng	eng	You cannot change what has already happened. 	You can't change what's already happened. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	I think someone took my bag. 	I think that somebody took my bag. 
eng	eng	That's not something I'd ever do. 	That isn't something that I'd ever do. 
eng	eng	How much longer do you think I need to stay in Boston? 	How much longer do you think that I need to stay in Boston? 
eng	eng	Tom said that you studied French every day. 	Tom said you studied French every day. 
eng	eng	Mary has a swollen eye. Her eyelid was bitten by a mosquito while she slept. 	Mary's got a swollen eye: her eyelid was bitten by a mosquito while she slept. 
eng	eng	That is appropriate. 	That's appropriate. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes that no one will ask him to do that. 	Tom hopes no one will ask him to do that. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom deserves a second chance. 	I think Tom deserves a second chance. 
eng	eng	Tom said Mary hopes John does that. 	Tom said that Mary hopes that John does that. 
eng	eng	Please tell me when you cannot hear this anymore. 	Please tell me when you can't hear this anymore. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	How long do you think Tom's been doing this? 	How long do you think Tom has been doing this? 
eng	eng	Would it be OK if I tried on this jacket? 	Would it be OK if I tried this jacket on? 
eng	eng	I hope we can do that together someday. 	I hope that we can do that together someday. 
eng	eng	Don't forget that I love you. 	Don't forget I love you. 
eng	eng	We're not good at math. 	We aren't good at math. 
eng	eng	I thought you'd finished doing that already. 	I thought that you'd finished doing that already. 
eng	eng	I think Tom thinks I think too much. 	I think that Tom thinks I think too much. 
eng	eng	Let's hope that's not going to happen. 	Let's hope that that's not going to happen. 
eng	eng	Now I know that you were right. 	Now I know you were right. 
eng	eng	We put on our socks. 	We put our socks on. 
eng	eng	There is a cafe on the second floor. 	There's a cafe on the second floor. 
eng	eng	Tom said that Mary hopes you'll do that. 	Tom said Mary hopes you'll do that. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't cry, but everyone else did. 	Tom didn't cry, but everybody else did. 
eng	eng	I'll get you a ticket, too. 	I'll get a ticket for you, too. 
eng	eng	Please don't make the same mistakes I made. 	Please don't make the same mistakes that I made. 
eng	eng	Do you have a mobile? 	Have you got a mobile? 
eng	eng	Tom didn't call to let me know he'd be late. 	Tom didn't call to let me know that he'd be late. 
eng	eng	Let's get out of here before anybody sees us. 	Let's get out of here before anyone sees us. 
eng	eng	It's Tom Mary wants to see. 	It's Tom that Mary wants to see. 
eng	eng	Has anyone ever actually met this "Tom Jackson"? 	Has anybody ever actually met this "Tom Jackson"? 
eng	eng	Tom's a real joker. 	Tom is a real joker. 
eng	eng	Let's hope that happens on Monday. 	Let's hope that that happens on Monday. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	No one seems to have a logical explanation for why this happens. 	Nobody seems to have a logical explanation for why this happens. 
eng	eng	I think that you'll find this amusing. 	I think you'll find this amusing. 
eng	eng	That's not the only thing Tom found. 	That's not the only thing that Tom found. 
eng	eng	I was an idiot to lend Tom money. 	I was an idiot to lend money to Tom. 
eng	eng	Tom could have prevented it. 	Tom could've prevented it. 
eng	eng	What's the funniest thing you've ever done? 	What's the funniest thing that you've ever done? 
eng	eng	I totally forgot that today was Tom's birthday. 	I totally forgot today was Tom's birthday. 
eng	eng	Your microphone is on. 	Your microphone's on. 
eng	eng	That's not your notebook. It's Tom's. 	That isn't your notebook. It's Tom's. 
eng	eng	We took our shirts off. 	We took off our shirts. 
eng	eng	We took our socks off. 	We took off our socks. 
eng	eng	This is the first time that I've eaten this kind of ice cream. 	This is the first time I've eaten this kind of ice cream. 
eng	eng	Tom let Mary know that he had a crush on her. 	Tom let Mary know he had a crush on her. 
eng	eng	Tom knows that I hate it. 	Tom knows I hate it. 
eng	eng	I hope that it isn't impossible. 	I hope it isn't impossible. 
eng	eng	That isn't something you forget. 	That isn't something that you forget. 
eng	eng	If Tom comes, give him this paper. 	If Tom comes, give this paper to him. 
eng	eng	It appears that Tom doesn't know what he's doing. 	It appears Tom doesn't know what he's doing. 
eng	eng	That's not something we like to do. 	That's not something that we like to do. 
eng	eng	That's not Tom's idea. 	That isn't Tom's idea. 
eng	eng	Tom saw Mary talking to somebody he didn't know. 	Tom saw Mary talking to somebody that he didn't know. 
eng	eng	They only allow you to visit patients for 30 minutes per day. 	They only allow you to visit patients for thirty minutes a day. 
eng	eng	Soup cannot be eaten with a fork. 	Soup can't be eaten with a fork. 
eng	eng	Tom said he hadn't seen anyone. 	Tom said he hadn't seen anybody. 
eng	eng	Why don't we wait for another 5 minutes? 	Why don't we wait for another five minutes? 
eng	eng	I thought you liked playing with me. 	I thought that you liked playing with me. 
eng	eng	Keep on working hard! 	Keep on working hard. 
eng	eng	Tokyo seems to have got the message from Washington. 	Tokyo seems to have gotten the message from Washington. 
eng	eng	No one else could find Tom, but I knew exactly where he was. 	Nobody else could find Tom, but I knew exactly where he was. 
eng	eng	I wish everyone knew this. 	I wish everybody knew this. 
eng	eng	That's exactly the reaction that I was hoping for. 	That's exactly the reaction I was hoping for. 
eng	eng	I wonder if it'll rain. 	I wonder whether it'll rain. 
eng	eng	I hope you're not afraid to use it. 	I hope you aren't afraid to use it. 
eng	eng	I'm starting to think this was a bad idea. 	I'm starting to think that this was a bad idea. 
eng	eng	Tom told everyone he had done that. 	Tom told everyone that he had done that. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes that Mary will forgive him. 	Tom hopes Mary will forgive him. 
eng	eng	Let them eat cake. 	Let them eat cake! 
eng	eng	You're the first woman that I've ever fallen in love with. 	You're the first woman I've ever fallen in love with. 
eng	eng	What Tom did made Mary angry. 	What Tom did made Mary mad. 
eng	eng	That's not the only thing Tom wanted. 	That isn't the only thing that Tom wanted. 
eng	eng	There is a large fly in the room. 	There's a large fly in the room. 
eng	eng	I have been thinking about starting a new business. 	I've been thinking about starting a new business. 
eng	eng	We hope that that happens. 	We hope that happens. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	If Tom hadn't done it, somebody else would have. 	If Tom hadn't done it, someone else would've done it. 
eng	eng	Ew. 	Ew! 
eng	eng	We were beaten by the better team. 	We were beaten by the better side. 
eng	eng	I know that it's what Tom wants. 	I know it's what Tom wants. 
eng	eng	Tom says that he wants to drink with us. 	Tom says he wants to drink with us. 
eng	eng	I had no idea that Tom would be able to do that. 	I had no idea Tom would be able to do that. 
eng	eng	That isn't the answer that I'd hoped for. 	That's not the answer that I'd hoped for. 
eng	eng	This is the first time that this has ever been done. 	This is the first time this has ever been done. 
eng	eng	Tom sent Mary presents. 	Tom sent presents to Mary. 
eng	eng	Tom is an old fart. 	Tom's an old fart. 
eng	eng	I heard that Tom and Mary have gotten divorced. 	I heard Tom and Mary have gotten divorced. 
eng	eng	Tom's parents said that they wouldn't let him go to Australia by himself. 	Tom's parents said they wouldn't let him go to Australia by himself. 
eng	eng	That's not the tool that I'd use. 	That isn't the tool that I'd use. 
eng	eng	Tom had on a wig. 	Tom had a wig on. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes that he can do that next October. 	Tom hopes he can do that next October 
eng	eng	I think that somebody took my bag. 	I think that someone took my bag. 
eng	eng	Someone forced open the door. 	Someone forced the door open. 
eng	eng	My heart is filled with joy! 	My heart is filled with joy. 
eng	eng	I think someone took my bag. 	I think somebody took my bag. 
eng	eng	I'm surprised that Tom refused such a good offer. 	I'm surprised Tom refused such a good offer. 
eng	eng	Why didn't you tell me that you got the promotion? 	Why didn't you tell me you got the promotion? 
eng	eng	Tom didn't seem to realize he'd hurt Mary's feelings. 	Tom didn't seem to realize that he'd hurt Mary's feelings. 
eng	eng	Do you think there's a chance that Tom's actually right? 	Do you think there's a chance Tom is actually right? 
eng	eng	Tom didn't take off his watch. 	Tom didn't take his watch off. 
eng	eng	No one knows what'll happen tomorrow. 	Nobody knows what'll happen tomorrow. 
eng	eng	Tom said that Mary hopes John does that. 	Tom said that Mary hopes that John does that. 
eng	eng	We should try to treat everybody fairly. 	We should try to treat everyone fairly. 
eng	eng	Nobody has seen Tom today. 	No one has seen Tom today. 
eng	eng	Even though Tom explained it in detail, I'm not sure I really understand it. 	Even though Tom explained it in detail, I'm not sure that I really understand it. 
eng	eng	What is your favorite wild animal? 	What's your favorite wild animal? 
eng	eng	Take your time. It's not that urgent. 	Take your time. It isn't that urgent. 
eng	eng	Don't tell Tom I was born in Boston. 	Don't tell Tom that I was born in Boston. 
eng	eng	I am in the habit of taking a walk every day. 	I'm in the habit of taking a walk every day. 
eng	eng	It's really not that important. 	It's not really that important. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't realize that he'd been tricked. 	Tom didn't realize he'd been tricked. 
eng	eng	Nobody should drink and drive. 	No one should drink and drive. 
eng	eng	Tom said that there was no one in here. 	Tom said there was no one in here. 
eng	eng	Tom set his mug down. 	Tom set down his mug. 
eng	eng	It's a good thing that Tom left the door open. 	It's a good thing Tom left the door open. 
eng	eng	Trust in God but lock your car. 	Trust God but lock your car. 
eng	eng	It's rumored that Tom and Mary have broken up. 	It's rumored Tom and Mary have broken up. 
eng	eng	Stay outside! 	Stay outside. 
eng	eng	Tom says that he's prepared to die. 	Tom says he's prepared to die. 
eng	eng	You know that I will follow you. 	You know I'll follow you. 
eng	eng	I told Tom that he needed to relax. 	I told Tom he needed to relax. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	We need to go to the drugstore to buy some medicine for Tom. 	We need to go to the drugstore to buy Tom some medicine. 
eng	eng	Tom said Mary hopes she wins. 	Tom said Mary hopes that she wins. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Thanks for everything you've done for us. 	Thanks for everything that you've done for us. 
eng	eng	I really hope that no one saw us doing that. 	I really hope that nobody saw us doing that. 
eng	eng	We're hoping that no one gets injured. 	We're hoping no one gets injured. 
eng	eng	Does Tom realise what he's done? 	Does Tom realize what he's done? 
eng	eng	I hope that Tom can take care of Mary. 	I hope Tom can take care of Mary. 
eng	eng	That isn't very easy to do. 	That's not very easy to do. 
eng	eng	Why don't we buy Tom a tennis racket? 	Why don't we buy a tennis racket for Tom? 
eng	eng	What day of the week is the twentieth? 	What day of the week is the 20th? 
eng	eng	That isn't something that I need. 	That's not something I need. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing that Tom wanted. 	That's not the only thing that Tom wanted. 
eng	eng	Your neighbor's rich. 	Your neighbor is rich. 
eng	eng	I am not satisfied with the result at all. 	I'm not satisfied with the result at all. 
eng	eng	Let's leave before anyone sees us. 	Let's leave before anybody sees us. 
eng	eng	Eat this bread! 	Eat this bread. 
eng	eng	Isn't this the first time that's happened? 	Isn't this the first time that that's happened? 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason that Tom wanted to do that. 	That's not the main reason that Tom wanted to do that. 
eng	eng	She seems to be out at the moment. 	It looks as if she's out at the moment. 
eng	eng	We may have more in common than you think. 	We may have more in common than you think we do. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	Nobody's perfect at it. 	No one is perfect at it. 
eng	eng	I am very grateful to Tom for saving my life. 	I'm very grateful to Tom for saving my life. 
eng	eng	The man who's driving the bus is my father. 	The man driving the bus is my father. 
eng	eng	I don't think that Tom is a carpenter. 	I don't think Tom is a carpenter. 
eng	eng	Of all the essays I read today, I thought this one was the most interesting. 	Of all the essays I read today, I thought that this one was the most interesting. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	Everyone's a translator. 	Everyone is a translator. 
eng	eng	Nobody stopped to see if Tom was OK. 	No one stopped to see if Tom was OK. 
eng	eng	I doubt that branch can support your weight. 	I doubt that that branch can support your weight. 
eng	eng	The latest issue of the magazine has devoted a lot of space to the topic. 	A lot of space has been devoted to the topic in the latest issue of the magazine. 
eng	eng	I think Tom thinks that I think too much. 	I think that Tom thinks that I think too much. 
eng	eng	Sex isn't a trophy. 	Sex is not a trophy. 
eng	eng	I know that I have a lot of enemies here. 	I know I have many enemies here. 
eng	eng	I admit that I lost. 	I admit I lost. 
eng	eng	I just hope we make it out of here alive. 	I just hope that we make it out of here alive. 
eng	eng	Those projects did get off the ground, but they didn't produce any visible results. 	Although those projects did get off the ground, they didn't produce any tangible results. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing that Tom did. 	That isn't the only thing Tom did. 
eng	eng	Tom saw Mary eating meat, even though she'd told him she was a vegetarian. 	Tom saw Mary eating meat, even though she'd told him that she was a vegetarian. 
eng	eng	The eggs in the nest in our attic must have hatched. I've been hearing birds tweeting all day today. 	The eggs in the nest in our attic must've hatched. I've been hearing birds tweeting all day today. 
eng	eng	Tom adjusted his rear-view mirror. 	Tom adjusted his rearview mirror. 
eng	eng	He said over half an hour what he could've said in five minutes. 	He said in the course of half an hour what he could've said in five minutes. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes he doesn't get deported. 	Tom hopes that he doesn't get deported. 
eng	eng	All great men are dead and I am not feeling too well myself. 	All great men are dead and I'm not feeling too well myself. 
eng	eng	Is there anything I can do to make it up to you? 	Is there anything that I can do to make it up to you? 
eng	eng	How did you spend the money that I gave you? 	How did you spend the money I gave you? 
eng	eng	I miss you when you're not around. 	I miss you when you aren't around. 
eng	eng	We were glad to hear that Tom got back safely. 	We were glad to hear Tom got back safely. 
eng	eng	Tom said he'd eaten. 	Tom said that he'd eaten. 
eng	eng	Math is really hard! 	Math is really hard. 
eng	eng	That's not your only problem. 	That isn't your only problem. 
eng	eng	I really hope no one saw us doing that. 	I really hope that nobody saw us doing that. 
eng	eng	Where has he got to? 	Where's he got to? 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't know that Mary wouldn't be at his party. 	Tom didn't know Mary wouldn't be at his party. 
eng	eng	Whatever may happen, I am prepared for it. 	Whatever may happen, I'm prepared for it. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	He is our neighbour. 	He's our neighbor. 
eng	eng	I told Tom that he should relax. 	I told Tom he should relax. 
eng	eng	Does everybody agree with this? 	Does everyone agree with this? 
eng	eng	I suspect that you have conspired against me. 	I suspect that you've conspired against me. 
eng	eng	I would not have been able to do that. 	I wouldn't have been able to do that. 
eng	eng	Didn't you say you were on a diet? 	Didn't you say that you were on a diet? 
eng	eng	That's not something I'd joke about. 	That isn't something I'd joke about. 
eng	eng	Everybody went in. 	Everyone went in. 
eng	eng	That isn't your book. 	That's not your book. 
eng	eng	Tom said that everyone was very drunk. 	Tom said that everybody was very drunk. 
eng	eng	I would never confide in Tom. 	I'd never confide in Tom. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Mary doesn't speak Galician. 	Mary does not speak Galician. 
eng	eng	Stay as far away as possible from anybody that you think may be sick. 	Stay as far away as possible from anyone that you think may be sick. 
eng	eng	Except for the storm, I would have arrived earlier. 	Except for the storm, I would've arrived earlier. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	Tom was shouting at someone. 	Tom was shouting at somebody. 
eng	eng	Tom said he hoped he'd win the race. 	Tom said he hoped that he'd win the race. 
eng	eng	Nobody was wounded in the attack. 	No one was wounded in the attack. 
eng	eng	He's in the toilet. 	He's in the loo. 
eng	eng	That's not something that I'm prepared to do. 	That isn't something I'm prepared to do. 
eng	eng	I thought Tom was a native French speaker. 	I thought that Tom was a native French speaker. 
eng	eng	I can sing and dance. 	I can dance and sing. 
eng	eng	I asked Tom to send us the book. 	I asked Tom to send the book to us. 
eng	eng	It's difficult to love somebody when it isn't clear whether or not the other person loves you the same way. 	It's difficult to love someone when it's not clear whether or not the other person loves you the same way. 
eng	eng	That has got to be a mistake. 	That's got to be a mistake. 
eng	eng	The results are now being analysed. 	The results are now being analyzed. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing that Tom did. 	That's not the only thing that Tom did. 
eng	eng	I was kind of surprised when Tom said he didn't know how to do that. 	I was kind of surprised Tom said he didn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	The doors opened and everyone quickly left the room. 	The doors opened and everybody quickly left the room. 
eng	eng	If you're not going, I'm not going either. 	If you aren't going, I'm not going either. 
eng	eng	I hope it'll work next time. 	I hope that it'll work next time. 
eng	eng	My train is delayed. 	My train's been delayed. 
eng	eng	I hope you know what to do. 	I hope that you know what to do. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't know I had an ace up my sleeve. 	Tom didn't know that I had an ace up my sleeve. 
eng	eng	We would have helped, if you had asked. 	We would've helped, if you'd asked. 
eng	eng	We put down our suitcases. 	We put our suitcases down. 
eng	eng	What will we do tomorrow if we finish this today? 	What'll we do tomorrow if we finish this today? 
eng	eng	Tom sometimes phones Mary five times a day. 	Tom sometimes calls Mary five times a day. 
eng	eng	Let's hope that isn't going to happen. 	Let's hope that's not going to happen. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he wanted to ring the bell. 	Tom said he wanted to ring the bell. 
eng	eng	We heard that a storm was headed our way, so we headed for shore. 	We heard a storm was headed our way, so we headed for shore. 
eng	eng	Tom told me he thought that Mary had been suspended. 	Tom told me that he thought that Mary had been suspended. 
eng	eng	I hope that Tom gets what he wants. 	I hope Tom gets what he wants. 
eng	eng	That isn't the way I want to do that. 	That's not the way that I want to do that. 
eng	eng	I know that I have many enemies here. 	I know I have many enemies here. 
eng	eng	There's no evidence that that ever happened. 	There's no evidence that ever happened. 
eng	eng	I hope you have a good time in Europe. 	I hope that you have a good time in Europe. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't tell me he was leaving. 	Tom didn't tell me that he was leaving. 
eng	eng	I don't think that we should make an exception. 	I don't think we should make an exception. 
eng	eng	No one was able to answer Tom's question. 	Nobody was able to answer Tom's question. 
eng	eng	There are always a lot of kids in the park. 	There are always a lot of children in the park. 
eng	eng	I am not obsessed with money. 	I'm not obsessed with money. 
eng	eng	There isn't any running water. 	There's not any running water. 
eng	eng	Who is the girl who's crying? 	Who's the girl who's crying? 
eng	eng	I thought it was a good book, but Tom thought otherwise. 	I thought that it was a good book, but Tom thought otherwise. 
eng	eng	I think I should probably leave. 	I think that I should probably leave. 
eng	eng	I will never visit Tom again. 	I'll never visit Tom again. 
eng	eng	That isn't the response I expected. 	That isn't the response that I expected. 
eng	eng	You'd better hope that doesn't happen. 	You'd better hope that that doesn't happen. 
eng	eng	Everyone says Tom is a good man. 	Everybody says that Tom is a good man. 
eng	eng	I hope that you have lots of fun. 	I hope you have a lot of fun. 
eng	eng	I've never seen Tom hit anybody. 	I've never seen Tom hit anyone. 
eng	eng	It is very kind of you to show me the way. 	It's very kind of you to show me the way. 
eng	eng	That's not the main reason that Tom wants to do that. 	That's not the main reason Tom wants to do that. 
eng	eng	Listen carefully to what I am going to tell you. 	Listen carefully to what I'm going to tell you. 
eng	eng	Someone forced the door open. 	Somebody forced open the door. 
eng	eng	I think that I've had too much to drink. 	I think I've had too much to drink. 
eng	eng	I am near-sighted, so I cannot make out what is written on that signboard. 	I'm near-sighted, so I can't make out what is written on that signboard. 
eng	eng	You could at least say that you're sorry. 	You could at least say you're sorry. 
eng	eng	Tom admitted he had taken bribes. 	Tom admitted he'd taken bribes. 
eng	eng	It seems that Tom wants to become a teacher. 	It seems Tom wants to become a teacher. 
eng	eng	I hope it isn't impossible. 	I hope that it's not impossible. 
eng	eng	I showed Tom some pictures that I like. 	I showed some pictures that I like to Tom. 
eng	eng	I fear there's been some misunderstanding. 	I fear that there's been some misunderstanding. 
eng	eng	It's not a good idea to reuse passwords. 	It isn't a good idea to reuse passwords. 
eng	eng	Everybody says Tom is a nice person. 	Everyone says that Tom is a nice person. 
eng	eng	It's OK to be mad at someone who hurt you. 	It's okay to be mad at someone who hurt you. 
eng	eng	Tom's been out of it lately. 	Tom has been out lately. 
eng	eng	Walk faster! 	Walk faster. 
eng	eng	Tom had a pair of fuzzy dice hanging from his rear-view mirror. 	Tom had a pair of fuzzy dice hanging from his rearview mirror. 
eng	eng	Pick up your toys. 	Pick your toys up. 
eng	eng	That's not part of the official plan. 	That isn't part of the official plan. 
eng	eng	Tom has lost the faith. 	Tom's lost the faith. 
eng	eng	You should be celebrating! 	You should be celebrating. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't get the raise that he asked for. 	Tom didn't get the raise he asked for. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing I want to do. 	That's not the only thing that I want to do. 
eng	eng	Some people think that sleeping is a waste of time. 	Some people think sleeping is a waste of time. 
eng	eng	Tom said he didn't see anybody. 	Tom said that he didn't see anybody. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	I thought that maybe Tom had a heart attack. 	I thought maybe Tom had a heart attack. 
eng	eng	We put on our skates. 	We put our skates on. 
eng	eng	Tom turned off the light and left the room. 	Tom turned the light off and left the room. 
eng	eng	No one seems to have a logical explanation for this. 	Nobody seems to have a logical explanation for this. 
eng	eng	Kids enjoy this game, but adults don't. 	Children enjoy this game, but adults don't. 
eng	eng	Tom made sure that everything was set up correctly. 	Tom made sure that everything was set up right. 
eng	eng	That isn't something that I'm prepared to do. 	That isn't something I'm prepared to do. 
eng	eng	The Gents is on the first floor. 	The men's toilet is on the first floor. 
eng	eng	That's not easy, you know. 	That isn't easy, you know. 
eng	eng	Take any book that you want to read. 	Take any book you want to read. 
eng	eng	Doing that won't be too hard, but it's something that'll require patience. 	Doing that won't be too difficult, but it's something that'll require patience. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he was going to buy a truck. 	Tom said he was going to buy a truck. 
eng	eng	We put our shoes on. 	We put on our shoes. 
eng	eng	Let's hope Tom will be there. 	Let's hope that Tom will be there. 
eng	eng	I have a lot of things that I want to do before I die. 	I have a lot of things I want to do before I die. 
eng	eng	Write your questions down. 	Write down your questions. 
eng	eng	We're not deaf. 	We aren't deaf. 
eng	eng	I like damson plums. 	I like damsons. 
eng	eng	That's not a smart thing to do. 	That isn't a smart thing to do. 
eng	eng	That isn't too smart. 	That's not too smart. 
eng	eng	I hope it's not impossible. 	I hope that it's not impossible. 
eng	eng	I know that Tom knows that I know. 	I know that Tom knows I know. 
eng	eng	Tom told everybody he had done that. 	Tom told everyone that he had done that. 
eng	eng	I think that it's time for us to change the subject. 	I think it's time for us to change the subject. 
eng	eng	Pop the hood. 	Open the bonnet. 
eng	eng	Spanish is closer to Portuguese than it is to Catalan. 	Spanish is closer to Portuguese than to Catalan. 
eng	eng	She lives elsewhere. 	She lives somewhere else. 
eng	eng	I was happy that I was able to see Tom. 	I was happy I was able to see Tom. 
eng	eng	I hope you have lots of fun. 	I hope that you have lots of fun. 
eng	eng	Tell Tom that I can't see him today. 	Tell Tom I can't see him today. 
eng	eng	I can't get through to anyone. 	I can't get through to anybody. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't sing the song that Mary requested. 	Tom didn't sing the song Mary requested. 
eng	eng	We hope Tom does well. 	We hope that Tom does well. 
eng	eng	That isn't a very nice thing to do. 	That's not a very nice thing to do. 
eng	eng	It's OK to lie to authority figures. 	It's okay to lie to authority figures. 
eng	eng	Doing that might not be very difficult. 	Doing that might not be very hard. 
eng	eng	We enjoy going for walks in the countryside. 	We enjoy walking in the countryside. 
eng	eng	I knew that Tom was a traitor. 	I knew Tom was a traitor. 
eng	eng	Do you know why Tom gave Mary that? 	Do you know why Tom gave that to Mary? 
eng	eng	Mary is heading this way. 	Mary's heading this way. 
eng	eng	All of the money I had in this drawer has been stolen. 	All of the money that I had in this drawer has been stolen. 
eng	eng	There are always a lot of children in the park. 	There are always lots of kids in the park. 
eng	eng	That's not working! 	That's not working. 
eng	eng	My phone's dying. 	My phone is dying. 
eng	eng	I suspect that Tom has been drinking on the job. 	I suspect Tom has been drinking on the job. 
eng	eng	Tom claims he can see ghosts. 	Tom claims that he can see ghosts. 
eng	eng	I hope that it isn't impossible. 	I hope that it's not impossible. 
eng	eng	I'd hoped Tom would find someone else to help him. 	I'd hoped that Tom would find someone else to help him. 
eng	eng	I totally forgot it was Tom's birthday. 	I totally forgot that it was Tom's birthday. 
eng	eng	Tom's good at haggling. 	Tom is good at haggling. 
eng	eng	If Tom calls again, tell him I'm busy. 	If Tom calls again, tell him that I'm busy. 
eng	eng	That's not Tom's notebook. It's mine. 	That isn't Tom's notebook. It's mine. 
eng	eng	I have missed you too, Tom. 	I've missed you too, Tom. 
eng	eng	I am absent from school on occasion. 	I'm absent from school on occasion. 
eng	eng	Tom said he was happy, but he wasn't. 	Tom said that he was happy, but he wasn't. 
eng	eng	Mary hopes Tom will ask her out. 	Mary hopes that Tom will ask her out. 
eng	eng	That's the way it works, and the only way that it can work. 	That's the way it works, and the only way it can work. 
eng	eng	You are expected to come by 5:00. 	You're expected to come by 5:00. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom is a good teacher. 	I think Tom is a good teacher. 
eng	eng	Tom said everyone was very drunk. 	Tom said everybody was very drunk. 
eng	eng	Tom knows he's wrong. 	Tom knows that he's wrong. 
eng	eng	Tom was afraid somebody would recognize him. 	Tom was afraid that somebody would recognize him. 
eng	eng	People will not stop dying from this. 	People won't stop dying from this. 
eng	eng	I have never believed Tom. 	I've never believed Tom. 
eng	eng	That's not the main reason why Tom ought to have done that. 	That isn't the main reason why Tom ought to have done that. 
eng	eng	I heard Tom offered you a job. 	I heard that Tom offered you a job. 
eng	eng	I don't think that that'll bother Tom. 	I don't think that'll bother Tom. 
eng	eng	I hope that they live happily ever after. 	I hope they live happily ever after. 
eng	eng	The servant who answered the door told Tom that Mary wasn't at home. 	The servant who answered the door told Tom Mary wasn't at home. 
eng	eng	How about having supper outside this evening? 	How about eating supper outside this evening? 
eng	eng	Tom said he hadn't seen anybody. 	Tom said that he hadn't seen anyone. 
eng	eng	Does anyone remember whose idea it was? 	Does anybody remember whose idea it was? 
eng	eng	Let me know if you figure it out. 	Let me know if you work it out. 
eng	eng	I think that someone spiked the punch. 	I think somebody spiked the punch. 
eng	eng	I don't think that Tom knows that I used to be married to Mary. 	I don't think Tom knows that I used to be married to Mary. 
eng	eng	The car I have now is much better than the one I used to have. 	The car that I have now is much better than the one that I used to have. 
eng	eng	I am engaged in a new business. 	I'm engaged in a new business. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom is a very kind man. 	I think Tom is a very kind man. 
eng	eng	Turn off the camera. 	Turn the camera off. 
eng	eng	Tom wasn't the one who chopped those trees down. 	Tom wasn't the one who chopped down those trees. 
eng	eng	Why don't we turn the TV off? 	Why don't we turn off the TV? 
eng	eng	Please leave a message after the beep and I will get back to you as soon as possible. 	Please leave a message after the beep and I'll get back to you as soon as possible. 
eng	eng	Give this car to Tom. 	Give Tom this car. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing I want to do. 	That's not the only thing I want to do. 
eng	eng	I am the weekend nurse. 	I'm the weekend nurse. 
eng	eng	Tom is a Norwegian. 	Tom is Norwegian. 
eng	eng	This is enough! 	This is enough. 
eng	eng	I will be very brief. 	I'll be very brief. 
eng	eng	It's Tom Mary wants to talk to. 	It's Tom that Mary wants to talk to. 
eng	eng	The shirt that I got from Tom fit me perfectly. 	The shirt I got from Tom fit me perfectly. 
eng	eng	Nobody wants Tom here. 	No one wants Tom here. 
eng	eng	It's okay to be weird. 	It's OK to be weird. 
eng	eng	Tom couldn't believe that he was going out with one of the best-looking girls at school. 	Tom couldn't believe he was going out with one of the best-looking girls at school. 
eng	eng	You can invite anyone you want to. 	You can invite anybody you want to. 
eng	eng	The wind changed directions. 	The wind changed direction. 
eng	eng	One of the servants told Tom that Mary wasn't at home. 	One of the servants told Tom Mary wasn't at home. 
eng	eng	Would you like to see some pictures that I took in Boston? 	Would you like to see some pictures I took in Boston? 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	All of the money I had in this drawer is missing. 	All of the money that I had in this drawer is missing. 
eng	eng	Nothing Tom said made any sense. 	Nothing that Tom said made any sense. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom thinks I think too much. 	I think Tom thinks that I think too much. 
eng	eng	You're not bothering me. 	You aren't bothering me. 
eng	eng	I knew Tom was the traitor. 	I knew that Tom was the traitor. 
eng	eng	That's not the response I was hoping for. 	That's not the response that I was hoping for. 
eng	eng	Doing that won't take as long as you think. 	Doing that won't take as long as you think it will. 
eng	eng	I told Tom that I couldn't sing. 	I told Tom I couldn't sing. 
eng	eng	I still need to buy Tom a birthday present. 	I still need to buy a birthday present for Tom. 
eng	eng	That jacket must have cost you an arm and a leg. 	That jacket must've cost you an arm and a leg. 
eng	eng	That's not very hard to do. 	That isn't very difficult to do. 
eng	eng	Doing that won't be too hard, but it's something that'll require a lot of time. 	Doing that won't be too difficult, but it's something that'll require a lot of time. 
eng	eng	Let's hope that isn't going to happen. 	Let's hope that that isn't going to happen. 
eng	eng	Let's play on the beach. 	Let's play on the beach! 
eng	eng	I told Tom that I didn't want to sing. 	I told Tom I didn't want to sing. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he hoped that he'd win the race. 	Tom said he hoped that he'd win the race. 
eng	eng	Tom says that he never locks his doors. 	Tom says he never locks his doors. 
eng	eng	Who is the girl who is crying? 	Who's the girl who is crying? 
eng	eng	Tell me one reason why I should trust Tom after what he has done to me. 	Tell me one reason why I should trust Tom after what he's done to me. 
eng	eng	Tom admitted that he had taken bribes. 	Tom admitted he'd taken bribes. 
eng	eng	She had on a red silk dress. 	She had a red silk dress on. 
eng	eng	The hotel sector is recruiting. 	The hotel sector is recruiting people. 
eng	eng	Sales of the book have trebled in the past year. 	Sales of the book have trebled during the past year. 
eng	eng	Let's hope we get to do that. 	Let's hope that we get to do that. 
eng	eng	Tom thought that he was being set up. 	Tom thought he was being set up. 
eng	eng	Did anybody other than Tom help Mary? 	Did anyone other than Tom help Mary? 
eng	eng	I know Tom knows I know. 	I know that Tom knows I know. 
eng	eng	I hope both Tom and Mary get what they want. 	I hope that both Tom and Mary get what they want. 
eng	eng	That's not the only thing Tom wanted. 	That's not the only thing that Tom wanted. 
eng	eng	That isn't what people usually do. 	That's not what people usually do. 
eng	eng	That's not possible right now. Please wait a bit. 	That isn't possible right now. Please wait a bit. 
eng	eng	Tom isn't a citizen. 	Tom is not a citizen. 
eng	eng	I believe it was Tom who said that. 	I believe that it was Tom who said that. 
eng	eng	Do you think I would recognize Tom? 	Do you think I'd recognize Tom? 
eng	eng	Monkeys are not as strong as bears. 	Monkeys aren't as strong as bears. 
eng	eng	I hope you'll be able to do that soon. 	I hope that you'll be able to do that soon. 
eng	eng	I wonder how long this rain will last. 	I wonder how long this rain'll last. 
eng	eng	That's not silver. 	That isn't silver. 
eng	eng	Don't tell anyone that I did that. 	Don't tell anybody that I did that. 
eng	eng	I hope we can do that again. 	I hope that we can do that again. 
eng	eng	My train departs in ten minutes. 	My train leaves in ten minutes. 
eng	eng	I'm afraid that I might get lost if I don't have a map. 	I'm afraid I might get lost if I don't have a map. 
eng	eng	You should have washed your car. 	You should've washed your car. 
eng	eng	That isn't your bicycle, is it? 	That's not your bicycle, is it? 
eng	eng	I knew Tom knew what I wanted to do. 	I knew that Tom knew what I wanted to do. 
eng	eng	If Tom hadn't done it, someone else would've done it. 	If Tom hadn't done it, someone else would've. 
eng	eng	Shut the window. There's a draught. 	Shut the window. There's a draft. 
eng	eng	That was the first time I'd ever seen a koala. 	That was the first time that I'd ever seen a koala. 
eng	eng	Someone spiked my drink. 	Somebody spiked my drink. 
eng	eng	The first thing we need to do is build a fire. 	The first thing that we need to do is build a fire. 
eng	eng	I'm less optimistic than you are. 	I'm less optimistic than you. 
eng	eng	People think that Tom is really out-there. 	People think Tom is really out-there. 
eng	eng	Did you really think that Tom would help you do that? 	Did you really think Tom would help you do that? 
eng	eng	Someone broke into our house. 	Somebody broke into our house. 
eng	eng	No wonder you're so mad. 	No wonder you're so angry. 
eng	eng	I lost the umbrella that Tom gave me for my birthday. 	I lost the umbrella Tom gave me for my birthday. 
eng	eng	I can't believe Tom actually spent money on this. 	I can't believe that Tom actually spent money on this. 
eng	eng	Tom said he had some things he needed to get off his chest. 	Tom said that he had some things that he needed to get off his chest. 
eng	eng	Someone rang. 	Someone phoned. 
eng	eng	That isn't the tool I'd use. 	That isn't the tool that I'd use. 
eng	eng	They enjoy going for walks in the countryside. 	They enjoy walking in the countryside. 
eng	eng	Everybody says Tom is a nice person. 	Everyone says Tom is a nice person. 
eng	eng	Tom admitted he had lied to Mary. 	Tom admitted that he'd lied to Mary. 
eng	eng	I am completely out of breath. 	I'm completely out of breath. 
eng	eng	We were worried we'd lose our way. 	We were worried that we'd lose our way. 
eng	eng	"What kind of person was Tom?" "I'll put it this way: someone who nobody here misses." 	"What kind of person was Tom?" "I'll put it this way: somebody who nobody here misses." 
eng	eng	Tom gave Mary roses on Valentine's Day. 	Tom gave roses to Mary on Valentine's Day. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't read the report that Mary told him to read. 	Tom didn't read the report Mary told him to read. 
eng	eng	Tell me three things that you can't do well. 	Tell me three things you can't do well. 
eng	eng	I really hope that happens this time. 	I really hope that that happens this time. 
eng	eng	I'd hoped that Tom would find somebody else to help him. 	I'd hoped Tom would find someone else to help him. 
eng	eng	I told Tom that I couldn't work because I was sick. 	I told Tom I couldn't work because I was sick. 
eng	eng	The better team won. 	The better side won. 
eng	eng	You will never be as cool as I am. 	You'll never be as cool as I am. 
eng	eng	Tom will probably be fired for what he has done. 	Tom will probably be fired for what he's done. 
eng	eng	Turn on the light! 	Turn on the light. 
eng	eng	I hope I'll survive this. 	I hope that I'll survive this. 
eng	eng	No matter what may happen, I am always prepared for it. 	No matter what may happen, I'm always prepared for it. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't say he was sorry. 	Tom didn't say that he was sorry. 
eng	eng	I think you meant to send this message to somebody else. 	I think that you meant to send this message to someone else. 
eng	eng	You did better on the exam than me. 	You did better on the exam than I did. 
eng	eng	That isn't something that we like to do. 	That isn't something we like to do. 
eng	eng	Tom was in Mary's car the last time I saw him. 	Tom was in Mary's car the last time that I saw him. 
eng	eng	I am no better than a beggar. 	I'm no better than a beggar. 
eng	eng	How many kanji does the average college-educated Japanese know? 	How many Chinese characters does the average college-educated Japanese know? 
eng	eng	Tom sat down and took off his rollerblades. 	Tom sat down and took his rollerblades off. 
eng	eng	There's still food in your bowl! 	There's still food in your bowl. 
eng	eng	That isn't supposed to happen anymore. 	That's not supposed to happen anymore. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Where has he gone? 	Where's he gone? 
eng	eng	That isn't a question that I usually get. 	That isn't a question I usually get. 
eng	eng	Tom gave us these figs. 	Tom gave these figs to us. 
eng	eng	We both hope that'll happen. 	We both hope that that'll happen. 
eng	eng	I don't know how it will end. 	I don't know how it'll end. 
eng	eng	Monkeys are closely related to humans. 	Monkeys and humans are close relatives. 
eng	eng	The movie that we saw last night had a happy ending. 	The movie we saw last night had a happy ending. 
eng	eng	I hope that we can survive this drought. 	I hope we can survive this drought. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing Tom wanted. 	That's not the only thing that Tom wanted. 
eng	eng	The ball smacked the crossbar, the keeper beaten all ends up. 	The ball smacked the crossbar with the keeper beaten all ends up. 
eng	eng	Sorry to be slow replying. 	Sorry for being slow to reply. 
eng	eng	Someone's parked their car in my parking space. 	Somebody's parked their car in my parking space. 
eng	eng	This umbrella cost me thirty dollars. 	This umbrella cost me $30. 
eng	eng	What have you got planned for next weekend? 	What do you have planned for next weekend? 
eng	eng	It's really hot this summer! 	It's really hot this summer. 
eng	eng	Turtles are not as fast as rabbits. 	Turtles aren't as fast as rabbits. 
eng	eng	I think that you should watch this movie. 	I think you should watch this movie. 
eng	eng	You explain things better than my teacher does. 	You explain things better than my teacher. 
eng	eng	Someone forced the door open. 	Somebody forced the door open. 
eng	eng	I would've thought Tom's French would be better. 	I would've thought that Tom's French would be better. 
eng	eng	Tom brought enough food for everyone. 	Tom brought enough food for everybody. 
eng	eng	This summer is really hot! 	This summer is really hot. 
eng	eng	It was obvious that Tom was upset. 	It was obvious Tom was upset. 
eng	eng	Tom bought a refractory telescope. 	Tom bought a refracting telescope. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes that he doesn't have to work late. 	Tom hopes he doesn't have to work late. 
eng	eng	Tom soon realized Mary was deliberately avoiding him. 	Tom soon realized that Mary was deliberately avoiding him. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he was too sick to come to work. 	Tom said he was too sick to come to work. 
eng	eng	That's not very difficult to do. 	That isn't very hard to do. 
eng	eng	I think Tom thinks I think that. 	I think Tom thinks that I think that. 
eng	eng	Tom needs to stop pretending that he's someone he's not. 	Tom needs to stop pretending he's someone he's not. 
eng	eng	Please take care of my baby while I am out. 	Please take care of my baby while I'm out. 
eng	eng	Tom cooks even better than me. 	Tom cooks even better than I do. 
eng	eng	I doubt that it will please Tom. 	I doubt it'll please Tom. 
eng	eng	Everyone says that Tom is a good man. 	Everybody says that Tom is a good man. 
eng	eng	She has rung. 	She's phoned. 
eng	eng	Nobody seems to be afraid of me. 	No one seems to be afraid of me. 
eng	eng	It is very practical. 	It's very practical. 
eng	eng	Tom was a little surprised when Mary said she didn't know how to do that. 	Tom was a little surprised when Mary said that she didn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	That's not the only reason why Tom ought to have done that. 	That isn't the only reason why Tom ought to have done that. 
eng	eng	I wish I could go to the concert with you. 	I wish that I could go to the concert with you. 
eng	eng	That isn't the deal. 	That's not the deal. 
eng	eng	It seems there's no one in. 	It seems there's nobody in. 
eng	eng	Tom wondered how long it would take Mary to realise that John wouldn't be coming back. 	Tom wondered how long it would take Mary to realize John wouldn't be coming back. 
eng	eng	It's not really safe for you to drink out of my glass. 	It isn't really safe for you to drink out of my glass. 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason Tom didn't want to do that. 	That's not the main reason Tom didn't want to do that. 
eng	eng	Tom told me he hasn't seen Mary in a long time. 	Tom told me that he hasn't seen Mary in a long time. 
eng	eng	Tomorrow will be a new day! 	Tomorrow will be a new day. 
eng	eng	If you're not willing to do what we tell you to do, then leave. 	If you aren't willing to do what we tell you to do, then leave. 
eng	eng	Had I known earlier, I could have done something about it. 	Had I known earlier, I could've done something about it. 
eng	eng	Tom told me Mary studied French. 	Tom told me that Mary studied French. 
eng	eng	Tom knew that he shouldn't trust Mary. 	Tom knew he shouldn't trust Mary. 
eng	eng	I thought that Tom was a nonsmoker. 	I thought Tom was a nonsmoker. 
eng	eng	Tom's sisters are both beautiful. 	Both of Tom's sisters are beautiful. 
eng	eng	No matter what the cost, I will accomplish that. 	No matter what the cost, I'll accomplish that. 
eng	eng	I'll make sure that nobody hears about this incident. 	I'll make sure nobody hears about this incident. 
eng	eng	I hope I can graduate. 	I hope that I can graduate. 
eng	eng	I'm not the man I was when you first met me. 	I'm not the man that I was when you first met me. 
eng	eng	We both lost our phones. 	Both of us lost our phones. 
eng	eng	I think I'll stay home and watch TV this evening. 	I think that I'll stay home and watch TV this evening. 
eng	eng	I have a feeling I'm going to regret this later. 	I have a feeling that I'm going to regret this later. 
eng	eng	I've heard that shoplifting is fun. 	I've heard shoplifting is fun. 
eng	eng	Tom said Mary hopes John does that. 	Tom said Mary hopes that John does that. 
eng	eng	Dan is interested in Inuit people. 	Dan is interested in Yupik people. 
eng	eng	Everybody says that Tom is a nice person. 	Everyone says Tom is a nice person. 
eng	eng	I will be in Boston until Monday afternoon. 	I'll be in Boston until Monday afternoon. 
eng	eng	I think Tom will be glad to see you. 	I think that Tom will be glad to see you. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't like the book that I lent him. 	Tom didn't like the book I lent him. 
eng	eng	Tom said he didn't see anyone. 	Tom said that he didn't see anybody. 
eng	eng	We aren't ready to leave yet. 	We're not ready to leave yet. 
eng	eng	I asked if anyone had seen Tom. 	I asked if anybody had seen Tom. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Somebody forced the door open. 	Somebody forced open the door. 
eng	eng	I know Tom knows that I know. 	I know that Tom knows I know. 
eng	eng	You can't kick me around any more. 	You can't kick me around anymore. 
eng	eng	I'm surprised that Tom didn't help you. 	I'm surprised Tom didn't help you. 
eng	eng	It's just gone twenty past one. 	It has just gone twenty past one. 
eng	eng	Are you sure Tom is a native French speaker? 	Are you sure that Tom is a native French speaker? 
eng	eng	Are you sure your haven't forgotten anything? 	Are you sure that your haven't forgotten anything? 
eng	eng	We cancelled the picnic because of the rain. 	We canceled the picnic because of the rain. 
eng	eng	What's the scariest movie you've ever seen? 	What's the scariest movie that you've ever seen? 
eng	eng	Tom said that some teenagers attacked him. 	Tom said some teenagers attacked him. 
eng	eng	This is not normal at all. 	This isn't normal at all. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he had eaten. 	Tom said that he'd eaten. 
eng	eng	Order me a drink. 	Order a drink for me. 
eng	eng	Tom picked the magazine up and started reading it. 	Tom picked up the magazine and started reading it. 
eng	eng	That isn't Tom's choice. 	That's not Tom's choice. 
eng	eng	I really hope nobody saw us doing that. 	I really hope that nobody saw us doing that. 
eng	eng	That isn't the kind of thing that we like to do. 	That isn't the kind of thing we like to do. 
eng	eng	I'm sure that the meeting will be over soon. 	I'm sure the meeting will be over soon. 
eng	eng	We should have arrived earlier. 	We should've arrived earlier. 
eng	eng	Tom said that Mary isn't sick. 	Tom said Mary isn't sick. 
eng	eng	Tom poured Mary a drink. 	Tom poured a drink for Mary. 
eng	eng	I feel happiest when I am at home with my family. 	I feel happiest when I'm at home with my family. 
eng	eng	Everyone thinks that Tom is a genius. 	Everybody thinks Tom is a genius. 
eng	eng	Tom began singing, and everyone else joined in. 	Tom began singing, and everybody else joined in. 
eng	eng	Didn't you know that Tom couldn't drive? 	Didn't you know Tom couldn't drive? 
eng	eng	I want to talk with you when you are dressed. 	I want to talk with you when you're dressed. 
eng	eng	Tom speaks not only French, but also German, because he is Alsatian. 	Tom speaks not only French, but also German, because he's Alsatian. 
eng	eng	I earn about as much as you. 	I earn about as much as you do. 
eng	eng	I really hope nobody saw us doing that. 	I really hope no one saw us doing that. 
eng	eng	I hope that this isn't the last time we see you. 	I hope this isn't the last time we see you. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he hoped he'd win the race. 	Tom said he hoped that he'd win the race. 
eng	eng	I was kind of surprised when Tom said that he didn't know how to do that. 	I was kind of surprised Tom said that he didn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	Tom swore that it was true. 	Tom swore it was true. 
eng	eng	It was unclear who carried out the attack. 	It wasn't clear who carried out the attack. 
eng	eng	I didn't recognize Tom because he had put on a lot of weight. 	I didn't recognize Tom because he'd put on a lot of weight 
eng	eng	I know that you read French well. 	I know you read French well. 
eng	eng	Have you ever lent Tom money? 	Have you ever lent money to Tom? 
eng	eng	We took our skates off. 	We took off our skates. 
eng	eng	I would really like you to go. 	I'd really like you to go. 
eng	eng	Tom told everybody that he had done that. 	Tom told everyone that he had done that. 
eng	eng	I hope that you have a lot of fun. 	I hope you have a lot of fun. 
eng	eng	Tom said Mary hopes John does that. 	Tom said that Mary hopes John does that. 
eng	eng	Are you sure that's the only solution? 	Are you sure that that's the only solution? 
eng	eng	Everybody says Tom is a nice person. 	Everybody says that Tom is a nice person. 
eng	eng	We didn't take our shoes off. 	We didn't take off our shoes. 
eng	eng	Tom says that he hasn't had a drink in three years. 	Tom says he hasn't had a drink in three years. 
eng	eng	I hope that I can be in Boston next weekend. 	I hope I can be in Boston next weekend. 
eng	eng	It seems to me that I've seen that person over there who's wearing glasses somewhere before. 	It seems to me I've seen that person over there who's wearing glasses somewhere before. 
eng	eng	Why don't we wait till Monday? 	Why don't we wait until Monday? 
eng	eng	Tom soon realized that he'd been swindled. 	Tom soon realized he'd been swindled. 
eng	eng	A truck got stuck on the railway crossing. 	A truck got stuck on the railroad crossing. 
eng	eng	I am surprised to hear that prices have gone up so high. 	I'm surprised to hear that prices have gone up so high. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	There's a chance that Tom came here when he was young. 	There's a chance Tom came here when he was young. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	I'm glad that you've returned safely. 	I'm glad you've returned safely. 
eng	eng	I think that you should avoid Tom today. 	I think you should avoid Tom today. 
eng	eng	Today isn't a good time to do that. 	Today's not a good time to do that. 
eng	eng	Tom bought a refractory telescope. 	Tom bought a refractor telescope. 
eng	eng	Tom is bound to complain. 	Tom's bound to complain. 
eng	eng	It's not nice to hit people. 	It isn't nice to hit people. 
eng	eng	Don't tell anyone I did that. 	Don't tell anybody that I did that. 
eng	eng	No one's been able to find the answer. 	Nobody's been able to find the answer. 
eng	eng	It's possible that Tom came here when he was a boy. 	It's possible Tom came here when he was a boy. 
eng	eng	What is your favorite kind of rice? 	What's your favorite kind of rice? 
eng	eng	Don't cut these trees down. 	Don't cut down these trees. 
eng	eng	It is true that I am a strict teacher. 	It's true that I'm a strict teacher. 
eng	eng	That was the best that I could do. 	That was the best I could do. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only thing I want to do. 	That isn't the only thing that I want to do. 
eng	eng	It's really not that important. 	It isn't really that important. 
eng	eng	How would you feel if you told Tom that you loved him, but he told you that he didn't love you? 	How would you feel if you told Tom you loved him, but he told you he didn't love you? 
eng	eng	I don't think anyone could survive that. 	I don't think that anybody could survive that. 
eng	eng	We need to know everything that you know about Tom. 	We need to know everything you know about Tom. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't know that Mary was sad. 	Tom didn't know Mary was sad. 
eng	eng	That isn't supposed to happen, is it? 	That's not supposed to happen, is it? 
eng	eng	Tom said that he hopes it'll happen soon. 	Tom said he hopes it'll happen soon. 
eng	eng	There's not much room at my place. 	There isn't much room at my place. 
eng	eng	I think it'll be possible to get this ink stain out. 	I think that it'll be possible to get this ink stain out. 
eng	eng	We put our helmets on. 	We put on our helmets. 
eng	eng	We aren't good at math. 	We're not good at maths. 
eng	eng	It is getting dark outdoors. 	It's getting dark outdoors. 
eng	eng	No one remembers how it all started. 	Nobody remembers how it all started. 
eng	eng	I'm beginning to suspect that Tom was the one who did this. 	I'm beginning to suspect Tom was the one who did this. 
eng	eng	Don't let Tom know you're scared. 	Don't let Tom know that you're scared. 
eng	eng	Tom hoped that Mary could help John. 	Tom hoped Mary could help John. 
eng	eng	The puzzle was too hard for Tom. 	The puzzle was too difficult for Tom. 
eng	eng	The train departs at half past two. 	The train leaves at half two. 
eng	eng	Somebody told me you died. 	Someone told me you died. 
eng	eng	Don't say that in front of the children! 	Don't say that in front of the children. 
eng	eng	It's not as dangerous as you might think. 	It isn't as dangerous as you might think. 
eng	eng	Tom told me that he thought Mary had been suspended. 	Tom told me he thought that Mary had been suspended. 
eng	eng	It will ruin us all. 	It'll ruin us all. 
eng	eng	I can't stand your whining anymore! 	I can't stand your whining anymore. 
eng	eng	If Tom hadn't done it, somebody else would've done it. 	If Tom hadn't done it, somebody else would've. 
eng	eng	I was kind of surprised when Tom said he didn't know how to do that. 	I was kind of surprised when Tom said that he didn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	Hamburg is on the Elbe. 	Hamburg lies on the Elbe. 
eng	eng	That isn't accurate, is it? 	That's not accurate, is it? 
eng	eng	That's something we want to avoid. 	That's something that we want to avoid. 
eng	eng	Tom told me he thought that Mary had been suspended. 	Tom told me he thought Mary had been suspended. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he hoped he'd win the race. 	Tom said that he hoped that he'd win the race. 
eng	eng	I didn't know you smoked. 	I didn't know that you smoked. 
eng	eng	Those are the sunglasses that I thought I'd lost. 	Those are the sunglasses I thought I'd lost. 
eng	eng	Keep the remote somewhere where Tom can't reach it. 	Keep the remote somewhere out of Tom's reach. 
eng	eng	There was no one in the library. 	There was nobody in the library. 
eng	eng	Is there an underground railway system in your city? 	Is there a metro in your city? 
eng	eng	I never dreamed I'd meet you here. 	I never dreamed that I'd meet you here. 
eng	eng	We didn't sell Tom our car. 	We didn't sell our car to Tom. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	It seems there's nobody home. 	It seems there's no one home. 
eng	eng	That isn't the response we expected. 	That's not the response we expected. 
eng	eng	Why's she so thin? 	Why is she so thin? 
eng	eng	That's not the only thing Tom wanted. 	That isn't the only thing Tom wanted. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	Tom is hoping that Mary can help him. 	Tom is hoping Mary can help him. 
eng	eng	You're better at explaining things than my teacher. 	You're better at explaining things than my teacher is. 
eng	eng	Tom said that his friends weren't drunk. 	Tom said his friends weren't drunk. 
eng	eng	Do you think there's a chance that Tom's actually right? 	Do you think there's a chance that Tom is actually right? 
eng	eng	You probably think I'm rich. 	You probably think that I'm rich. 
eng	eng	That's not something that I'm prepared to do. 	That isn't something that I'm prepared to do. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't take his sunglasses off. 	Tom didn't take off his sunglasses. 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason that Tom shouldn't have done that. 	That isn't the main reason Tom shouldn't have done that. 
eng	eng	It's not easy to find work nowadays. 	It isn't easy to find work nowadays. 
eng	eng	I tried to do everything I could to stop Tom. 	I tried to do everything that I could to stop Tom. 
eng	eng	Are you sure this is what we should be doing? 	Are you sure that this is what we should be doing? 
eng	eng	Which films have you seen? 	What films have you seen? 
eng	eng	Tom said that help was on the way. 	Tom said help was on the way. 
eng	eng	If I were you, I'd ask Tom to help. 	I'd ask Tom to help if I were you. 
eng	eng	No one's going to believe it. 	Nobody's going to believe it. 
eng	eng	The train leaves at half past two. 	The train leaves at half two. 
eng	eng	Even though Tom is rich, he's not happy. 	Even though Tom is rich, he isn't happy. 
eng	eng	The car that I have now is much better than the one I used to have. 	The car that I have now is much better than the one that I used to have. 
eng	eng	I suspect that many of you know that already. 	I suspect many of you know that already. 
eng	eng	Everybody was intrigued. 	Everyone was intrigued. 
eng	eng	Why don't we wait till October? 	Why don't we wait until October? 
eng	eng	We both need to lose weight. 	Both of us need to lose weight. 
eng	eng	Everybody says that Tom is a nice person. 	Everyone says that Tom is a nice person. 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason Tom ought to have done that. 	That's not the main reason that Tom ought to have done that. 
eng	eng	An icy northerly wind is blowing. 	There's an icy northerly wind blowing. 
eng	eng	Why don't we see if someone can help us? 	Why don't we see if somebody can help us? 
eng	eng	What have you bought for her? 	What've you bought for her? 
eng	eng	Tom is not easy to trick. 	It is not easy to trick Tom. 
eng	eng	You're not allowed to record here. 	You aren't allowed to record here. 
eng	eng	Tom isn't French. 	Tom's not French. 
eng	eng	That's not a mistake. 	That isn't a mistake. 
eng	eng	We took off our shoes. 	We took our shoes off. 
eng	eng	Make sure to thaw the chicken out before cooking. 	Make sure to thaw out the chicken before cooking. 
eng	eng	Tom took a sip of coffee and then set his cup down. 	Tom took a sip of coffee and then set down his cup. 
eng	eng	That's probably when I will be available during the week. 	That's probably when I'll be available during the week. 
eng	eng	I know that I have a lot of enemies here. 	I know I have a lot of enemies here. 
eng	eng	There are always a lot of kids in the park. 	There are always lots of kids in the park. 
eng	eng	Tom is always the victim. 	Tom's always the victim. 
eng	eng	I think Tom thinks I think too much. 	I think Tom thinks that I think too much. 
eng	eng	Tom said he was busy, but he wasn't. 	Tom said that he was busy, but he wasn't. 
eng	eng	Whoa, are you serious? 	Woah, are you serious? 
eng	eng	Go to the welcome desk to ask for some information. 	Go to the front desk to ask for some information. 
eng	eng	Now's not the time to be showing off. 	Now isn't the time to be showing off. 
eng	eng	She wondered whether to ring him. 	She wondered whether to phone him. 
eng	eng	I had intended to visit the temple last week. 	I'd intended to visit the temple last week. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Who felled that tree? 	Who cut that tree down? 
eng	eng	Do you suspect anyone? 	Do you suspect anybody? 
eng	eng	Buddhists believe in equanimity, a quality on which Christians do not focus. 	Buddhists believe in equanimity, a quality Christians do not focus on. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't learn how to swim until he was thirty years old. 	Tom didn't learn how to swim until he was thirty. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't eat any of the cherries that I gave him. 	Tom didn't eat any of the cherries I gave him. 
eng	eng	You can invite anybody you want to. 	You can invite anybody you want. 
eng	eng	Math is really hard. 	Math is really difficult. 
eng	eng	You know that I will follow you. 	You know that I'll follow you. 
eng	eng	I hope our shop doesn't get vandalized. 	I hope that our shop doesn't get vandalized. 
eng	eng	Tell Tom that I'll help him this afternoon. 	Tell Tom I'll help him this afternoon. 
eng	eng	I liked some of the songs that Tom sang. 	I liked some of the songs Tom sang. 
eng	eng	No one lost anything. 	Nobody lost anything. 
eng	eng	I think that somebody took my bag. 	I think somebody took my bag. 
eng	eng	I like that there's no one else here. 	I like that there's nobody else here. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	She enjoys going for walks in the countryside. 	She enjoys walking in the countryside. 
eng	eng	Everybody was intrigued by that. 	Everyone was intrigued by that. 
eng	eng	Tom said Mary is trying to lose weight. 	Tom said that Mary is trying to lose weight. 
eng	eng	Tom said he hadn't seen anyone. 	Tom said that he hadn't seen anybody. 
eng	eng	Tom doesn't like daylight savings time. 	Tom doesn't like daylight saving time. 
eng	eng	It's not clear where we'll do that. 	It isn't clear where we'll do that. 
eng	eng	I think you meant to send this message to somebody else. 	I think that you meant to send this message to somebody else. 
eng	eng	I'm as intrigued as you. 	I'm as intrigued as you are. 
eng	eng	I thought that it tasted good. 	I thought it tasted good. 
eng	eng	That's not the only thing I want to do. 	That isn't the only thing that I want to do. 
eng	eng	Tom admitted he had taken bribes. 	Tom admitted that he'd taken bribes. 
eng	eng	Tom told everybody that he had done that. 	Tom told everyone he had done that. 
eng	eng	This is the coat that I want to buy. 	This is the coat I want to buy. 
eng	eng	I've heard that Tom has left Mary. 	I've heard Tom has left Mary. 
eng	eng	It's difficult to love somebody when it's not clear whether or not the other person loves you the same way. 	It's difficult to love someone when it's not clear whether or not the other person loves you the same way. 
eng	eng	Why don't we buy Tom a pony? 	Why don't we buy a pony for Tom? 
eng	eng	I think Tom bought the house he was looking at last week. 	I think that Tom bought the house that he was looking at last week. 
eng	eng	No, my name's not Tom. 	No, my name isn't Tom. 
eng	eng	Tom is so weird; how could anyone not like cake? 	Tom is so weird; how could anybody not like cake? 
eng	eng	I am going in the same direction. Come with me. I will take you there. 	I'm going in the same direction. Come with me. I'll take you there. 
eng	eng	Tom wondered how long it would take Mary to realize that John wouldn't be coming back. 	Tom wondered how long it would take Mary to realize John wouldn't be coming back. 
eng	eng	I don't know whether Tom has a bicycle. 	I don't know whether or not Tom has a bicycle. 
eng	eng	I didn't say that you were stupid. 	I didn't say you were stupid. 
eng	eng	The ball came off the crossbar. 	The ball rebounded off the crossbar. 
eng	eng	I'd hoped that Tom would find somebody else to help him. 	I'd hoped that Tom would find someone else to help him. 
eng	eng	This fruit is not yet ripe enough to pick. 	This fruit isn't yet ripe enough to pick. 
eng	eng	Somebody told me you'd died. 	Somebody told me that you'd died. 
eng	eng	Was Tom the one who told you I wasn't coming? 	Was Tom the one who told you that I wasn't coming? 
eng	eng	I am the one who paid for that ticket. 	I'm the one who paid for that ticket. 
eng	eng	Tom couldn't run any faster. 	Tom wasn't able to run any faster. 
eng	eng	No one has seen Tom since. 	Nobody has seen Tom since. 
eng	eng	No one sat next to me. 	Nobody sat next to me. 
eng	eng	Tom's making a goofy face. 	Tom is making a goofy face. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	I am considering how to settle the matter. 	I'm considering how to settle the matter. 
eng	eng	I don't believe Tom is a lawyer. 	I don't believe that Tom is a lawyer. 
eng	eng	Tom saw Mary talking to somebody he didn't know. 	Tom saw Mary talking to someone that he didn't know. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom doesn't love his wife anymore. 	I think Tom doesn't love his wife anymore. 
eng	eng	I'm afraid that this won't be enough for Tom. 	I'm afraid this won't be enough for Tom. 
eng	eng	This is one of the books that I want to read. 	This is one of the books I want to read. 
eng	eng	That isn't the response we expected. 	That isn't the response that we expected. 
eng	eng	He read physics at Oxford. 	He studied physics at Oxford. 
eng	eng	Who will accompany me? 	Who'll accompany me? 
eng	eng	Tom didn't like the house that he'd inherited, so he sold it. 	Tom didn't like the house he'd inherited, so he sold it. 
eng	eng	Tom said he didn't want to deal with that. 	Tom said that he didn't want to deal with that. 
eng	eng	Tom is analysing the situation. 	Tom is analyzing the situation. 
eng	eng	I know that I'm not going to be punished. 	I know I'm not going to be punished. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	I'll take the lift. 	I'll take the elevator. 
eng	eng	I'm glad Tom was caught. 	I'm glad that Tom was caught. 
eng	eng	The weather is unseasonably warm. 	It's unseasonably warm. 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason that Tom didn't want to do that. 	That's not the main reason that Tom didn't want to do that. 
eng	eng	My train has been delayed. 	My train's been delayed. 
eng	eng	The restoration of this historic building went on for five years. 	The restoration of this historic building took five years. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	That isn't the tool I'd use. 	That's not the tool that I'd use. 
eng	eng	Nobody knows just how many people died in the avalanche. 	No one knows just how many people died in the avalanche. 
eng	eng	Nobody is perfect at it. 	No one is perfect at it. 
eng	eng	I think Tom thinks I think that. 	I think that Tom thinks I think that. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't realize that he'd been conned. 	Tom didn't realize he'd been conned. 
eng	eng	Nobody's perfect at it. 	Nobody is perfect at it. 
eng	eng	Just tell Tom that I can't see him today. 	Just tell Tom I can't see him today. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 
eng	eng	Tom couldn't make it to my party. 	Tom was unable to make it to my party. 
eng	eng	I don't think that Tom is a lawyer. 	I don't think Tom is a lawyer. 
eng	eng	Take your shoes off before going into a temple. 	Take off your shoes before going into a temple. 
eng	eng	They think maybe Tom had a heart attack. 	They think that maybe Tom had a heart attack. 
eng	eng	That isn't all that Tom did. 	That's not all that Tom did. 
eng	eng	You know we're here. 	You know that we are here. 
eng	eng	If I were you, I wouldn't eat any of the mushrooms that Tom picked. 	If I were you, I wouldn't eat any of the mushrooms Tom picked. 
eng	eng	I used to think you were cool. 	I used to think that you were cool. 
eng	eng	We all thought Tom was having a heart attack. 	We all thought that Tom was having a heart attack 
eng	eng	We hope that the museum will reopen soon. 	We hope the museum will reopen soon. 
eng	eng	You should zip up your coat. 	You should zip your coat up. 
eng	eng	Tom said all his friends were drunk. 	Tom said that all his friends were drunk. 
eng	eng	Tom got a drink for Mary. 	Tom got Mary a drink. 
eng	eng	Is anybody ever going to read all this? 	Is anyone ever going to read all this? 
eng	eng	Does anyone here speak French fluently? 	Does anybody here speak French fluently? 
eng	eng	Tom's thinking of moving to a cabin out in the middle of nowhere. 	Tom is thinking of moving to a cabin out in the middle of nowhere. 
eng	eng	No one could survive a fall like that. 	Nobody could survive a fall like that. 
eng	eng	Dress warmly if you don't want to get ill. 	Dress warmly if you don't want to get sick. 
eng	eng	That's the first time that that's happened to me. 	That's the first time that's happened to me. 
eng	eng	I've been told that you're looking for a caregiver. 	I've been told you're looking for a caregiver. 
eng	eng	I'm not suggesting any of us should do that. 	I'm not suggesting that any of us should do that. 
eng	eng	There is a rope bridge over the river. 	There's a rope bridge over the river. 
eng	eng	Do you act differently when you speak French? 	Do you act different when you speak French? 
eng	eng	There's a draught. 	There's a draft. 
eng	eng	Tom is over the worst of it. 	Tom's over the worst of it. 
eng	eng	Everyone says that Tom is a good man. 	Everyone says Tom is a good man. 
eng	eng	That isn't something that I'd ever do. 	That's not something that I'd ever do. 
eng	eng	Someone was trying to break in. 	Somebody was trying to break in. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't like his office, so he asked his boss to let him use another office. 	Tom didn't like his office, so he asked his boss to let him use another one. 
eng	eng	What have you bought him? 	What've you bought him? 
eng	eng	That isn't something that we need to do. 	That isn't something we need to do. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he's scared that his phone is smarter than he is. 	Tom said he's scared his phone is smarter than he is. 
eng	eng	You should have heeded my warning when you had the chance. 	You should've heeded my warning when you had the chance. 
eng	eng	That's not the main reason why Tom shouldn't have done that. 	That isn't the main reason why Tom shouldn't have done that. 
eng	eng	The dog is in its kennel. 	The dog's in its kennel. 
eng	eng	No one knows what will happen tomorrow. 	No one knows what'll happen tomorrow. 
eng	eng	I never said I was a good carpenter. 	I never said that I was a good carpenter. 
eng	eng	We take off our shoes when entering a house. 	We take our shoes off when entering a house. 
eng	eng	That was just the reaction that I was hoping for. 	That was just the reaction I was hoping for. 
eng	eng	This is the best we've played all year. 	This is the best that we've played all year. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	I hope Tom is behaving himself. 	I hope that Tom is behaving himself. 
eng	eng	I know Tom was a little embarrassed. 	I know that Tom was a little embarrassed. 
eng	eng	That is our car. 	That's our car. 
eng	eng	Tom has just got out of the bath and still has wet hair. 	Tom has just gotten out of the bath and still has wet hair. 
eng	eng	I promised to teach Tom French. 	I promised to teach French to Tom. 
eng	eng	He's legally blind. 	He is legally blind. 
eng	eng	If Tom hadn't done it, somebody else would've done it. 	If Tom hadn't done it, someone else would've done it. 
eng	eng	I think that I can find Tom. 	I think I can find Tom. 
eng	eng	We sold one of our cars to Tom. 	We sold Tom one of our cars. 
eng	eng	If Tom hadn't done it, someone else would've done it. 	If Tom hadn't done it, somebody else would've. 
eng	eng	Is it true that you taught yourself French? 	Is it true you taught yourself French? 
eng	eng	It will become an annoyance sooner or later. 	It'll become an annoyance sooner or later. 
eng	eng	I was hoping it was a joke. 	I was hoping that it was a joke. 
eng	eng	It will not stay that way. 	It won't stay that way. 
eng	eng	You are going to have to wait a little bit. 	You're going to have to wait a little bit. 
eng	eng	I would like to become an astronaut. 	I'd like to become an astronaut. 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason that Tom shouldn't have done that. 	That's not the main reason Tom shouldn't have done that. 
eng	eng	Tom said he hadn't seen anybody. 	Tom said that he hadn't seen anybody. 
eng	eng	The shirt that Tom gave me fit me perfectly. 	The shirt Tom gave me fit me perfectly. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't get the promotion that he was expecting. 	Tom didn't get the promotion that he was expecting to get. 
eng	eng	I am able to provide food and clothes for my family. 	I'm able to provide food and clothes for my family. 
eng	eng	See how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to live together in unity! 	Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity! 
eng	eng	I hope that Tom got what he needed. 	I hope Tom got what he needed. 
eng	eng	Go annoy somebody else. 	Go annoy someone else. 
eng	eng	Don't let anybody know I'm here. 	Don't let anybody know that I'm here. 
eng	eng	Doing that might not be hard. 	Doing that might not be difficult. 
eng	eng	Tom's never had his own bicycle. 	Tom has never had his own bicycle. 
eng	eng	Tom drank more than I did. 	Tom drank more than me. 
eng	eng	Doing that might not be too difficult. 	Doing that might not be too hard. 
eng	eng	I heard you paid Tom a visit yesterday. 	I heard that you paid Tom a visit yesterday. 
eng	eng	Tom asked me if I had ever done that. 	Tom asked me if I'd ever done that. 
eng	eng	No matter what happens, I am prepared. 	No matter what happens, I'm prepared. 
eng	eng	That isn't the main reason that Tom had to do that. 	That isn't the main reason Tom had to do that. 
eng	eng	Don't let anyone know that I'm here. 	Don't let anybody know that I'm here. 
eng	eng	You had better help Tom with that. 	You'd better help Tom with that. 
eng	eng	I think somebody took my bag. 	I think that someone took my bag. 
eng	eng	There isn't anyone there. 	There isn't anybody there. 
eng	eng	You are entitled to try once again. 	You're entitled to try once again. 
eng	eng	Tom said he didn't see anybody. 	Tom said he didn't see anyone. 
eng	eng	The last time Tom tried to hug Mary, she got mad at him. 	The last time that Tom tried to hug Mary, she got mad at him. 
eng	eng	They weren't ill. 	They were not ill. 
eng	eng	Nobody would sit next to me. 	No one would sit next to me. 
eng	eng	My life is like a test I haven't studied for. 	My life is like a test that I haven't studied for. 
eng	eng	I should have obeyed. 	I should've obeyed. 
eng	eng	There are always lots of kids in the park. 	There are always lots of children in the park. 
eng	eng	Tom admitted he had lied to Mary. 	Tom admitted he'd lied to Mary. 
eng	eng	Tom told everybody he had done that. 	Tom told everyone he had done that. 
eng	eng	I hope that we can salvage the situation. 	I hope we can salvage the situation. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't want to hear anything that Mary had to say. 	Tom didn't want to hear anything Mary had to say. 
eng	eng	That isn't the reason I came to Boston. 	That isn't the reason that I came to Boston. 
eng	eng	That's not the only thing that Tom did. 	That's not the only thing Tom did. 
eng	eng	That's not the main reason Tom had to do that. 	That isn't the main reason Tom had to do that. 
eng	eng	Why didn't you tell me that Tom had a girlfriend? 	Why didn't you tell me Tom had a girlfriend? 
eng	eng	Coincidence? I think not. 	Coincidence? I think not! 
eng	eng	Tom said that Mary hopes John does that. 	Tom said Mary hopes that John does that. 
eng	eng	Tom told me Mary didn't see him. 	Tom told me that Mary didn't see him. 
eng	eng	Get your keys out and open the door. 	Get out your keys and open the door. 
eng	eng	No one told me you were waiting for me. 	Nobody told me you were waiting for me. 
eng	eng	Put everything that you want thrown away in this box. 	Put everything you want thrown away in this box. 
eng	eng	It's very windy, but it's not cold. 	It's very windy, but it isn't cold. 
eng	eng	I've never heard Tom yell at anybody. 	I've never heard Tom yell at anyone. 
eng	eng	That isn't something we've ever talked about. 	That isn't something that we've ever talked about. 
eng	eng	If you act like that, Tom will think that you hate him. 	If you act like that, Tom will think you hate him. 
eng	eng	That isn't a word I'd ever use. 	That isn't a word that I'd ever use. 
eng	eng	Try not to make the same mistake that I made. 	Try not to make the same mistake I made. 
eng	eng	Get down off your cross. 	Get off your cross. 
eng	eng	I am afraid that it won't be enough for Tom. 	I'm afraid that it won't be enough for Tom. 
eng	eng	I hope we've proved our point. 	I hope that we've proved our point. 
eng	eng	It will be easier later. 	It'll be easier later. 
eng	eng	They're in a library. 	They are in a library. 
eng	eng	It was clear from the beginning that it was a terrorist attack. 	It was clear from the beginning it was a terrorist attack. 
eng	eng	It isn't a bug. It's an undocumented feature. 	It's not a bug. It's an undocumented feature. 
eng	eng	Make sure that you don't forget to mail this letter. 	Make sure you don't forget to mail this letter. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still give the same general message. 
eng	eng	Please don't make the same mistake that I made. 	Please don't make the same mistake I made. 
eng	eng	Tom said that he needed to eat something. 	Tom said he needed to eat something. 
eng	eng	Does Shunde belong to Foshan? 	Is Shunde part Foshan? 
eng	eng	There's a chance that Tom will be there today. 	There's a chance Tom will be there today. 
eng	eng	I forgot that we had homework. 	I forgot we had homework. 
eng	eng	Why don't we ask somebody to help us? 	Why don't we ask someone to help us? 
eng	eng	I'd hoped Tom would find somebody else to help him. 	I'd hoped that Tom would find somebody else to help him. 
eng	eng	What's the best gift you've ever been given? 	What's the best gift that you've ever been given? 
eng	eng	I no longer have to interact with people I have little to nothing in common with. 	I no longer have to interact with people that I have little to nothing in common with. 
eng	eng	Someone has poisoned our dog. 	Somebody has poisoned our dog. 
eng	eng	That's not very hard to do. 	That's not very difficult to do. 
eng	eng	Why don't we try once more? 	Why don't we try one more time? 
eng	eng	It's a miracle that our house survived the earthquake. 	It's a miracle our house survived the earthquake. 
eng	eng	Someone forced open the door. 	Somebody forced open the door. 
eng	eng	I'd hoped Tom would find somebody else to help him. 	I'd hoped that Tom would find someone else to help him. 
eng	eng	You are not allowed to park on the sidewalk. 	You aren't allowed to park on the sidewalk. 
eng	eng	I can see you put a lot of thought into this present. 	I can see that you put a lot of thought into this present. 
eng	eng	Tom said that some teenagers had attacked him. 	Tom said some teenagers had attacked him. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 	You can write a sentence in plenty of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Tom wished that he'd studied harder. 	Tom wished he'd studied harder. 
eng	eng	I will miss you all so much. 	I'll miss you all so much. 
eng	eng	You know Tom will never let you live this down, don't you? 	You know that Tom will never let you live this down, don't you? 
eng	eng	Don't let Tom know you're afraid. 	Don't let Tom know that you're afraid. 
eng	eng	Tell me three things that you can do well. 	Tell me three things you can do well. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't get the promotion that he was expecting. 	Tom didn't get the promotion he was expecting. 
eng	eng	Please take care of my dog while I am away. 	Please take care of my dog while I'm away. 
eng	eng	Don't tell me that Tom is drunk already. 	Don't tell me Tom is drunk already. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 	There are lots of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	We put on our hats. 	We put our hats on. 
eng	eng	Tom left without saying anything to anyone. 	Tom left without saying anything to anybody. 
eng	eng	Tom's phone's off. 	Tom's phone is off. 
eng	eng	I can't remember how my life was before I met Tom. 	I can't remember what my life was like before I met Tom. 
eng	eng	The complex houses married and single military staff and their families. 	The complex houses married and single soldiers and their families. 
eng	eng	That isn't something we've ever talked about. 	That's not something that we've ever talked about. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes that he won't get deported. 	Tom hopes he won't get deported. 
eng	eng	Who's the girl who's crying? 	Who's the girl who is crying? 
eng	eng	Everyone thinks that Tom is a genius. 	Everybody thinks that Tom is a genius. 
eng	eng	I think that Tom thinks that I think that. 	I think Tom thinks that I think that. 
eng	eng	That isn't the question that Tom asked me. 	That isn't the question Tom asked me. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	There are many ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	It might not be too difficult to do that. 	It might not be too hard to do that. 
eng	eng	Do you think that there's a chance that Tom is actually right? 	Do you think there's a chance Tom is actually right? 
eng	eng	I hope everything will be over soon. 	I hope that everything will be over soon. 
eng	eng	If you hadn't turned down Tom when he came to you for help, none of this would have happened. 	If you hadn't turned down Tom when he came to you for help, none of this would've happened. 
eng	eng	If I were you, I wouldn't pitch my tent there. 	I wouldn't pitch my tent there if I were you. 
eng	eng	Never open the door of a car that is in motion. 	Never open the door of a car that's in motion. 
eng	eng_Cyrl	Fear is a disease; hope is its only cure. 	Страх - это болезнь, единственное лекарство от него - надежда. 
eng	eng	Tom is a good person with a lot of flaws. 	Tom's a good person with a lot of flaws. 
eng	eng	That isn't the way I want to do that. 	That isn't the way that I want to do that. 
eng	eng	Is there an underground in your city? 	Is there an underground railway system in your city? 
eng	eng	Hopefully, nobody will get hurt. 	Hopefully, no one will get hurt. 
eng	eng	That's not something that I'd joke about. 	That isn't something I'd joke about. 
eng	eng	Everyone says Tom is a good man. 	Everybody says Tom is a good man. 
eng	eng	That isn't so hard. 	That's not so hard. 
eng	eng	He was delighted. 	He was over the moon. 
eng	eng	What is a UFO? 	What's a UFO? 
eng	eng	The soup is very hot! 	The soup is very hot. 
eng	eng	Do you think there's a chance that Tom is actually right? 	Do you think that there's a chance that Tom is actually right? 
eng	eng	This isn't the way I thought this would happen. 	This isn't the way that I thought that this would happen. 
eng	eng	It's raining, having been lovely for weeks on end. 	It's raining, after weeks of beautiful weather. 
eng	eng	That isn't the only reason why Tom needed to do that. 	That's not the only reason why Tom needed to do that. 
eng	eng	Is it true that Tom knows French. 	Is it true Tom knows French. 
eng	eng	There are many ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	You can write a sentence in many ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	There was a long queue in front of the vending machine. 	There was a long line in front of the vending machine. 
eng	eng	That's something I can’t guarantee. 	That's something that I can't guarantee. 
eng	eng	Nobody asked for my opinion. 	No one asked for my opinion. 
eng	eng	The ball came off the crossbar. 	The ball bounced off the crossbar. 
eng	eng	It's always somebody's birthday. 	It's always someone's birthday. 
eng	eng	Tom buttoned up his jacket. 	Tom buttoned his jacket up. 
eng	eng	We are all in the same position. 	We're re all in the same position. 
eng	eng	Tom doesn't care what anyone else does. 	Tom doesn't care what anybody else does. 
eng	eng	Put everything that you want to throw away in this box. 	Put everything you want to throw away in this box. 
eng	eng	I've been told that you're a very good carpenter. 	I've been told you're a very good carpenter. 
eng	eng	Tom is translating articles for Mary from a German magazine. 	Tom's translating articles for Mary from a German magazine. 
eng	eng	I hope I can spend more time doing that now that I'm retired. 	I hope that I can spend more time doing that now that I'm retired. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in many ways and still give the same general message. 	You can write a sentence in lots of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	Tom is nerdy. 	Tom's nerdy. 
eng	eng	We just sold Tom our car. 	We just sold our car to Tom. 
eng	eng	I don't think that this is a real diamond. 	I don't think this is a real diamond. 
eng	eng	I'm putting my shoes on. 	I'm putting on my shoes. 
eng	eng	Tom didn't see anybody that he recognized. 	Tom didn't see anyone that he recognized. 
eng	eng	There were a lot of things we wanted to do, but we didn't have enough time. 	There were a lot of things that we wanted to do, but we didn't have enough time. 
eng	eng	Tom seemed surprised when Mary said she didn't know how to do that. 	Tom seemed surprised when Mary said that she didn't know how to do that. 
eng	eng	Tom soon realized that he'd been conned. 	Tom soon realized he'd been conned. 
eng	eng	I'm tired of these rules. 	I'm tired of all these rules. 
eng	eng	That must be proven first. 	That must be proved first. 
eng	eng	The box you're looking for is in the storeroom. 	The box that you're looking for is in the storeroom. 
eng	eng	I was kind of hoping that we wouldn't have to do this. 	I was kind of hoping we wouldn't have to do this. 
eng	eng	I know Tom knows I know. 	I know that Tom knows that I know. 
eng	eng	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still give the same general message. 	You can write a sentence in a lot of ways and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	The snowman hasn't melted yet. 	The snowman hasn't yet melted. 
eng	eng	I was hoping you and I could get together this afternoon. 	I was hoping that you and I could get together this afternoon. 
eng	eng	The bishop took the knight, putting the opponent's king in check. 	By taking the knight, the bishop put the opponent's king in check. 
eng	eng	Tom hopes that no one will ask him to do that. 	Tom hopes that nobody will ask him to do that. 
eng	eng	I took it for granted that Tom would help us. 	I took it for granted Tom would help us. 
eng	eng	Why don't you just admit that you don't know what you're talking about? 	Why don't you just admit you don't know what you're talking about? 
eng	eng	The shirt that Tom was wearing was very wrinkled. 	The shirt Tom was wearing was very wrinkled. 
eng	eng	There are a lot of ways to write a sentence and still give the general message. 	There are plenty of ways to write a sentence and still keep the general message intact. 
eng	eng	I hope that you have lots of fun. 	I hope that you have a lot of fun. 
eng	eng	Tom regularly cleaned his ears out with Q-tips. 	Tom regularly cleaned his ears out with cotton buds. 
eng	eng	I will ask Tom for an explanation. 	I'll ask Tom for an explanation. 
eng	eng	I'm not deaf! You don't need to shout! 	I'm not deaf. You don't need to shout. 
eng	eng	There isn't anyone in that room. 	There isn't anybody in that room. 
eng	eng	Do not use water to put out a grease fire. 	Don't use water to put out a grease fire. 
eng	eng	Let's go into town. 	Let's go in town. 
eng	eng	No one has seen Tom since then. 	No one has seen Tom since. 
eng	eng	I am glad you are fine. 	I'm glad that you're fine. 
eng	eng	They will miss the train. 	They'll miss the train. 
eng	eng	I really hope Tom finds Mary. 	I really hope that Tom finds Mary. 
eng	eng	My son shall do the work. 	My son will do the work. 
eng	eng	I shared everything I had with Tom. 	I shared everything that I had with Tom. 
