eng	frr	The shirt is made from pure wool. 	Dit Sjürt es fan iiđer Ülen. 
eng	frr	I still need to feed the cattle. 	Ik skel jit dit Tjüch rök. 
eng	frr	Do we two still have enough flour? I want to bake something. 	Haa wat jit Meel inoch? Ik wel wat baak. 
eng	frr	The sausage is too fat. 	Di Mārig es tö fat. 
eng	frr	Can you understand this? 	Kenst dit forstuun? 
eng	frr	We have two trees in the garden. 	Wü haa tau Boomer ön Guart. 
eng	frr	Please switch on the light. 	Wiis sa gur en maaki dit Leecht ön. 
eng	frr	Fresh mushrooms are so tasty. 	Frisk Swaampen sen sa smaakelk. 
eng	frr	The child plays with its ball. 	Dit Jungen spölet me sin Baal. 
eng	frr	We have guests this evening. 	Wü haa injung Gasten. 
eng	frr	I would like another car. 	Ik her hol en üđer Wain. 
eng	frr	I was faster. 	Ik wiar gauer. 
eng	frr	We need her approval to send her this. 	Wü brük höör Tösteming, om höör dit tö stjüüren. 
eng	frr	I read the paper sometimes. 	Ik lees somtirs di Bleer. 
eng	frr	I don't have an explanation for that. 	Diarfuar haa ik niin Forklaaring. 
eng	frr	They are happily married. 	Ja sen lekelk bifriit. 
eng	frr	Next to the oven it is warm. 	Bi Aun es dit wārem. 
eng	frr	The knife cuts pretty well. 	Di Knif skiart rocht gur. 
eng	frr	What you are doing there is punishable. 	Wat dü diar maakest es straafbaar. 
eng	frr	That is a well-known song. 	Dit es en bikeent Leedji. 
eng	frr	She picks some apples. 	Jü ploket hok Aapeler. 
eng	frr	The valley was long and steep. 	Dit Deel wiar lüng en skor. 
eng	frr	He is standing on the roof. 	Hi staant üp Taak. 
eng	frr	He is ready soon. 	Hi es bal klaar. 
eng	frr	Gasoline is supposed to get more expensive again. 	Bensiin skel weđer jüürer uur. 
eng	frr	The rabbit eats the cabbage. 	Di Haas et di Kual. 
eng	frr	Will you visit us soon? 	Bisjukst dü üüs bal? 
eng	frr	He swum back to the shore. 	Hi swoom töbeek tö Kant. 
eng	frr	The jacket is too wide. 	Di Jak es mi tö wir. 
eng	frr	We should underline every important word. 	Wü skel ark wichtig Uurt önerstrik. 
eng	frr	Frisians are a minority. 	Friisen sen en Menerhair. 
eng	frr	I like to eat beans. 	Ik iit hol Buanen. 
eng	frr	He is sitting on the tree. 	Hi set üp Boom. 
eng	frr	Vegetables are growing on this field. 	Üp desjirem Eeker wukset Greentji. 
eng	frr	We stay at home. 	Wü bliiv itüüs. 
eng	frr	The boy is big and strong. 	Di Dreeng es gurt en stark. 
eng	frr	My daughter is sick, we are going to the doctor. 	Min Daachter es kraank, wü gung tö di Dokter. 
eng	frr	I guess she won't come today. 	Ik gesi, dat jü deling ek kumt. 
eng	frr	I can not feed the animals. 	Ik ken di Diirter ek fuuđeri. 
eng	frr	The title of the book was: "On the wild sea with a boat". 	Di Tiitel fan dit Bok wiar: "Me Buat üp di wilj See". 
eng	frr	He is gifting her a ring. 	Hi skeenkt höör en Ring. 
eng	frr	The pear is very tasty. 	Di Piar es mal smaakelk. 
eng	frr	We haven't heard from each other in a long time. 	Wü haa lung nönt fanarküđer jert. 
eng	frr	If you come, I'll bake a cake. 	Wan dü kumst, baak ik en Kuk. 
eng	frr	I bite the dog. 	Ik bit di Hün. 
eng	frr	That is true for sure. 	Dit es jendüüdig waar. 
eng	frr	He has called me the day before yesterday. 	Hi heer mi jerjüster önrööpen. 
eng	frr	The laundry isn't dry yet 	Di Wask es jit ek drüch. 
eng	frr	She constantly needs to laugh. 	Jü skel langsen lachi. 
eng	frr	He hears badly, he is nearly deaf. 	Hi jert ring, hi es binai doov. 
eng	frr	My husband has bought a new suit. 	Min Man heer höm en nii Paktji koopet. 
eng	frr	The meadow was colorful. 	Di Ingi wiar broket. 
eng	frr	Tom now has a beard. 	Tom heer nü en Biirt. 
eng	frr	Do you have money with you? 	Heest dü Jil bi? 
eng	frr	I will burn everything! 	Ik wel ales forbren! 
eng	frr	The rooms are too low. 	Di Rümer sen olter liig. 
eng	frr	Do you have a Band-Aid? 	Heest en Ploster? 
eng	frr	I don't need white but coloured paper. 	Ik brük ek wit man klööret Popiir. 
eng	frr	Both agreed to my suggestion. 	Biiring wiar mi min Fuarslach iinforstönen. 
eng	frr	Did the pills work? 	Haa di Tableten wirket? 
eng	frr	Do you have a vase for the flowers? 	Heest dü en Waas fuar di Krölen? 
eng	frr	The flat also has a small balcony. 	Di Uuning heer uk en litj Balkon. 
eng	frr	The boat was big. 	Dit Buat wiar gurt. 
eng	frr	If it rains, we won't have a picnic. 	Wan dit rintj, maaki wü niin Piknik. 
eng	frr	She has a lot of patience. 	Jü heer fuul Gidüür. 
eng	frr	I would like to have a cream for the hands. 	Ik her hol en Kreem fuar di Hunen. 
eng	frr	They have caught the thief. 	Ja haa di Tiiv töfaaten fingen. 
eng	frr	We can laze around on the weekend. 	Tö Weeksjen ken wü lailunti. 
eng	frr	That is a beautiful drawing. 	Dit es en dailk Teekning. 
eng	frr	Watch out, that the dog doesn't bite you. 	Pasi üp, dat di Hün di ek bet. 
eng	frr	Where are my red stockings? 	Hur sen min ruar Höösen? 
eng	frr	My son is too thin. He eats too little. 	Min Seen es mal kliin. Hi et tö litjet. 
eng	frr	Can you catch a fish? 	Kenst dü en Fesk fang? 
eng	frr	I have broken my leg. 	Ik haa mi min Biin breeken. 
eng	frr	The host of this pub is always so friendly. 	Di Wiart fan ditjirem Wiartshüs es langsen sa wenelk. 
eng	frr	Have you paid for that already? 	Heest dit al bitaalet? 
eng	frr	I do not have an explanation for that. 	Diarfuar haa ik niin Forklaaring. 
eng	frr	You can't drive drunk. 	Dü kenst ek drunken köör. 
eng	frr	I like to eat plums, and I like to eat plum pie even more. 	Ik iit hol Plumen en jit lewer Plumkuk. 
eng	frr	Julia wants to fly to America. 	Julia wel tö Ameerika flö. 
eng	frr	The rent was increased without a reason. 	Di Hüür waar söner Forklaaring forhooget. 
eng	frr	Be honest when you talk with me. 	Wiis iarelk, wan dü me mi snakest. 
eng	frr	Visit me again soon! 	Bisjuk mi bal weđer! 
eng	frr	Do you have a needle for me? I need to sew on the button again. 	Heest en Neerel fuar mi? Ik skel di Knop weđer bisii. 
eng	frr	We're building a house. 	Wü seet en Hüs āp. 
eng	frr	Marriage is holy. 	Di Ee es helig. 
eng	frr	We must bandage the wound immediately. 	Di Saar mut wü metjens forbinj. 
eng	frr	One has a nice view from the castle. 	Fan di Borig heer em en dailk Ütsicht. 
eng	frr	So, what have you done? 	Wat heest dü alsoo maaket? 
eng	frr	The neighbours are too nosy. 	Di Naiberslir sen olter niisgirig. 
eng	frr	We are building a house. 	Wü seet en Hüs āp. 
eng	frr	I don't have time today. 	Ik haa deling niin Tir. 
eng	frr	The baby has small ears. 	Di Dütji heer litj Uaren. 
eng	frr	The nut is hard. 	Di Nööt es hart. 
eng	frr	I read the newspaper sometimes. 	Ik lees somtirs di Bleer. 
eng	frr	I have greeted the guests. 	Ik haa di Gasten bigrööt. 
eng	frr	Our windows are not tight. There is always a draft. 	Üüs Wininger sen ek techt, hat trekt langsen. 
eng	frr	Please give me an apple. 	Wiis sa gur en dö mi en Aapel. 
eng	frr	The storm has destroyed a lot. 	Di Storem heer fuul tönöntmaaket. 
eng	frr	I can't sleep when the moon is full. 	Bi Folmuun ken ik ek sliip. 
eng	frr	The food is already on the table. 	Dit Iiten staant al üp Staal. 
eng	frr	The horse gallops over the meadow. 	Di Hingst galopiaret aur Ingi. 
eng	frr	We have two trees in the garden. 	Wü haa tau Bosker ön Guart. 
eng	frr	Then we will slaughter that fat pig. 	Da slachti wü dit fat Swin. 
eng	frr	The cat is catching a mouse. 	Di Kat fangt en Müs. 
eng	frr	Can I keep the money? 	Ken ik dit Jil bihual? 
eng	frr	Has she received my letter? 	Heer jü min Breev fingen? 
eng	frr	A healthy diet is important. 	En sün Niaring es wichtig. 
eng	frr	Is your lighter new? 	Es din Jöltjüch nii? 
eng	frr	The cat sits in the garden. 	Di Kat set ön Guart. 
eng	frr	Do you want to eat an egg? 	Wet dü en Ai iit? 
eng	frr	I practice three hours every day. 	Ik ööwi ark Dai trii Stünen. 
eng	frr	We need a fork. 	Wü brük jit en Gaawel. 
eng	frr	The laundry is not dry yet. 	Di Wask es jit ek drüch. 
eng	frr	The teacher was always serious. 	Di Skuulmaister wiar langsen iarnst. 
eng	frr	Sadly you have not answered my question. 	Dü heest min Fraag laider ek biswaaret. 
eng	frr	That's a well-known song. 	Dit es en bikeent Leedji. 
eng	frr	I have called you already. 	Ik haa juu al önrööpen. 
eng	frr	She made an effort. 	Jü heer höör Mait dön. 
eng	frr	He is ahead. 	Hi heer di Nöös fuarüt. 
eng	frr	The hat is not cheap. 	Di Hur es ek bilig. 
eng	frr	Do you like how the soup tastes? 	Maist dü hur di Sop smakt? 
eng	frr	We buy our vegetables from the farmer. 	Wü koopi üüs Greentji bi di Buur. 
eng	frr	I've broken my leg. 	Ik haa mi min Biin breeken. 
eng	frr	I like the colourful dress. 	Di broket Rok gifalt mi. 
eng	frr	That's a beautiful drawing. 	Dit es en dailk Teekning. 
eng	frr	Have a nice after-work evening! 	Faini Heliginj! 
eng	frr	He wants to buy a chain. 	Hi wel en Keting koopi. 
eng	frr	The jacket is too tight for me. 	Di Jak es mi olter naar. 
eng	frr	The farmer works on the field. 	Di Buur aarbert üp Eeker. 
eng	frr	He has got all tasks correct. 	Hi heer ali Āpgaawen rocht. 
eng	frr	We both have to buy a new bed. 	Wat mut en nii Bēr koopi. 
eng	frr	I have searched everywhere, but I could not find it. 	Ik haa aural saacht, man ik kür et ek finj. 
eng	frr	We have two bushes in the garden. 	Wü haa tau Bosker ön Guart. 
eng	frr	The wolf has bitten Maria. 	Di Ulv heer Maria beten. 
eng	frr	My uncle lives in Keitum. 	Min Oom uunet ön Kairem. 
eng	frr	The driver has caused the accident. 	Di Köörster heer di Ünfal foruursaaket. 
eng	frr	Let me hug you goodbye. 	Let di tö Ofskiar omjeremi. 
eng	frr	Until now it's going well. 	Hentö nü gair dit gur. 
eng	frr	Do you have sugar? The tea is very bitter. 	Heest dü Soker? Di Tee es mal beter. 
eng	frr	Welcome to Sylt! 	Hartelk welkemen üp Söl! 
eng	frr	May I open the window for a moment? 	Mut ik efen di Wining iipenmaaki? 
eng	frr	May I open the window for a moment? 	Mai ik efen di Wining iipenmaaki? 
eng	frr	The boss is never there. 	Di Baas es oler diar. 
eng	frr	My friend has broken his arm. 	Min Frinj heer höm di Jerem breeken. 
eng	frr	What is his job? 	Wat es sin Hantiaring? 
eng	frr	This year we have no pots with flowers on the balcony. 	Jaarlung haa wü niin Poten me Bloomen üp Balkon. 
eng	frr	The sky is cloudy. 	Di Locht es bitain. 
eng	frr	Can you pass me the salt and pepper? 	Kenst dü mi Saalt en Peeper leeng? 
eng	frr	She stood on the roof. 	Jü stön üp Taak. 
eng	frr	Why are you never satisfied? 	Huraur best dü oler töfreer? 
eng	frr	Warmth is good for my pain. 	Wārmker es gur töögen min Wark. 
eng	frr	We are talking about the excursion. 	Wü snaki aur di Ütflocht. 
eng	frr	She needs to search for her cat. 	Jü mut höör Kat sjuk. 
eng	frr	A thief has stolen my bag. 	En Tiiv heer mi min Task steelen. 
eng	frr	He's probably telling the truth. 	Hi sair noch di Waarhair. 
eng	frr	He drives over the bridge. 	Hi köört aur di Bröch. 
eng	frr	The moon was so bright there. 	Di Muun wiar er sa leecht. 
eng	frr	I have tried in vain to contact him. 	Ik haa foriifs forsaacht höm faat tö foen. 
eng	frr	I can not come, because I am sick. 	Ik ken ek kum, omdat ik kraank sen. 
eng	frr	Grandma and Grandpa have told us fairy tales. 	Mootji en Gooki haa üüs Staatjis fortelt. 
eng	frr	I don't have time tomorrow. See you the day after tomorrow. 	Miaren ken ik ek. Wü se üüs aurmiaren. 
eng	frr	We need to repair this roof again. 	Dit Taak mut wü weđer hiil maaki. 
eng	frr	Do you like the taste of the soup? 	Smakt di di Sop? 
eng	frr	I am content. 	Ik sen töfreer. 
eng	frr	Do you have a bigger pan? 	Heest dü en gurter Pon? 
eng	frr	The way is very wide. 	Di Wai es mal briir. 
eng	frr	The village is big and green. 	Dit Tērp es gurt en green. 
eng	frr	The harvest was good this year. 	Di Bāricht wiar jaarlung gur. 
eng	frr	I have understood nearly everything. 	Ik haa binai ales forstönen. 
eng	frr	Cut the onion into small pieces and fry the meat. 	Skiar di Skalot ön litj Steken en braari dit Meet. 
eng	frr	I have to change trains in Hamburg. 	Ön Hamborig mut ik omstiig. 
eng	frr	No room is currently available. 	Tötir es niin Rüm frii. 
eng	frr	The ship lies in the harbour. 	Dit Skep liit ön Haawen. 
eng	frr	The two brothers are pretty different. 	Di tau Bröđern sen rocht forskelig. 
eng	frr	Yesterday Maria wore a red dress. 	Jüster her Maria en ruar Rok ön. 
eng	frr	You don't have to be embarrassed about it. 	Dit mut di ek piinlik wiis. 
eng	frr	Can you give me your pocket knife? 	Kenst dü mi din Fekknif dö? 
eng	frr	This butcher has the best meat. 	Des Slachter heer dit beest Meet. 
eng	frr	The knives are not sharp, I need to whet them. 	Di Kniiwer sen ek skarp, ik skel jam weet. 
eng	frr	The pillow is too soft. 	Di Haurem es olter wuk. 
eng	frr	I need to make the pencil sharp. 	Ik mut di Blijant spits maaki. 
eng	frr	It is very windy today. 	Hat es deling mal winjig. 
eng	frr	I am going to the market today. 	Ik gung deling tö Marker. 
eng	frr	The candle burned the whole night. 	Dit Leecht bruan di hiili Nacht. 
eng	frr	The thunder came long after the lightning. 	Di Töner kām lung eeđer di Lait. 
eng	frr	Is there still some of the food left? 	Es jit wat fan't Iit aur? 
eng	frr	The leaves are turning yellow already. 	Di Bleeren uur al güül. 
eng	frr	Where do these ways lead to? 	Hurhen föör des Waien? 
eng	frr	The weather has changed. 	Dit Weđer heer en foranert. 
eng	frr	The trees are blooming and the flowers are blooming as well. 	Di Boomer blostri, en di Krölen bloomi uk. 
eng	frr	I have nearly missed the train today. 	Ik haa deling binai di Toch forpaset. 
eng	frr	Finally we have found you! 	Töleest haa wü di fünen! 
eng	frr	"Should I help you?" "No, I can manage doing this alone." 	"Skel ik di help?" "Naan, ik kum aliining törocht." 
eng	frr	The book costs four coins. 	Dit Bok kostet fjuur Münten. 
