eng	hbo_Hebr	"Are you coming?" "Yes." 	התבואי? אבוא. 
eng	hbo_Hebr	Happy are those who dwell in Your house; they will forever praise You. Selah. 	אַ֭שְׁרֵי יוֹשְׁבֵ֣י בֵיתֶ֑ךָ ע֝֗וֹד יְֽהַלְל֥וּךָ סֶּֽלָה׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	The sword will devour forever. 	לנצח נאכל חרב׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	"Are you coming?" "Yes." 	התבוא? אבוא. 
eng	hbo_Hebr	Will the fighting never end? 	הֲלָנֶצַח תֹּאכַל חֶרֶב׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	Will the sword devour forever? 	הֲלָנֶצַח תֹּאכַל חֶרֶב׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	For these things I weep, my eyes, my eyes shed tears, for the comforter that would restore my soul is removed from me. My children are desolate, for the enemy has prevailed. 	עַל־אֵלֶּה אֲנִי בוֹכִיָּה עֵינִי עֵינִי יֹרְדָה מַּיִם כִּי־רָחַק מִמֶּנִּי מְנַחֵם מֵשִׁיב נַפְשִׁי הָיוּ בָנַי שׁוֹמֵמִים כִּי גָבַר אוֹיֵב׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	You shall not make yourself a graven image, nor any manner of likeness, of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth below, or that is in the water under the earth. 	לֹא־תַעֲשֶׂה לְךָ פֶסֶל וְכָל־תְּמוּנָה אֲשֶׁר בַּשָּׁמַיִם מִמַּעַל וַאֲשֶׁר בָּאָרֶץ מִתָּחַת וַאֲשֶׁר בַּמַּיִם מִתַּחַת לָאָרֶץ‎׃‎ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	"Are you coming?" "Yes." 	התבואו? נבוא. 
eng	hbo_Hebr	How solitary sits the city that was full of people! The great one among the nations has become like a widow! The princess among the provinces has become a tributary! 	אֵיכָה יָשְׁבָה בָדָד הָעִיר רַבָּתִי עָם הָיְתָה כְּאַלְמָנָה רַבָּתִי בַגּוֹיִם שָׂרָתִי בַּמְּדִינוֹת הָיְתָה לָמַס׃‎ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	Thou shalt have no other gods before Me. 	לֹא־יִהְיֶה לְךָ אֱלֹהִים אֲחֵרִים עַל־פָּנָי׃‎ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	How the city that was once so full of people sits alone, like a widow! She who was great among the nations, a princess among the provinces, has become a tributary. 	אֵיכָה יָשְׁבָה בָדָד הָעִיר רַבָּתִי עָם הָיְתָה כְּאַלְמָנָה רַבָּתִי בַגּוֹיִם שָׂרָתִי בַּמְּדִינוֹת הָיְתָה לָמַס׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	And he mounted a cherub and flew. 	וַיִּרְכַּב עַל־כְּרוּב וַיָּעֹף׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	Persia is a big country. 	פָּרַס אֶרֶץ גְּדוֹלָה‎ הִיא׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	In the beginning, God created the universe. 	בראשית ברא אלהים את העולם׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	You loved me. 	אֲהַבְתָּנִי׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	You shall have no other gods before Me. 	לֹא־יִהְיֶה לְךָ אֱלֹהִים אֲחֵרִים עַל־פָּנָי׃‎ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	Love the stranger, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt. 	וַאֲהַבְתֶּם אֶת־הַגֵּר כִּי־גֵרִים הֱיִיתֶם בְּאֶרֶץ מִצְרָיִם׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	He dreamed and saw a stairway set upon the earth, and its top reached to heaven. Behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. 	וַיַּחֲלֹם וְהִנֵּה סֻלָּם מֻצָּב אַרְצָה וְרֹאשׁוֹ מַגִּיעַ הַשָּׁמָיְמָה וְהִנֵּה מַלְאֲכֵי אֱלֹהִים עֹלִים וְיֹרְדִים בּוֹ׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	But the seventh year you shall let it rest and lie fallow, that the poor of your people may eat; and what they leave, the animal of the field shall eat. In the same way you shall deal with your vineyard and with your olive grove. 	וְהַשְּׁבִיעִת תִּשְׁמְטֶנָּה וּנְטַשְׁתָּהּ וְאָכְלוּ אֶבְיֹנֵי עַמֶּךָ וְיִתְרָם תֹּאכַל חַיַּת הַשָּׂדֶה כֵּן־תַּעֲשֶׂה לְכַרְמְךָ לְזֵיתֶךָ׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	They loved them. 	אֲהֵבוּן׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	"Are you guys coming?" "We are." 	התבואו? נבוא. 
eng	hbo_Hebr	They loved them. 	אֲהֵבוּם׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	Thou shalt not make unto thee a graven image, nor any manner of likeness, of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth below, or that is in the water under the earth. 	לֹא־תַעֲשֶׂה לְךָ פֶסֶל וְכָל־תְּמוּנָה אֲשֶׁר בַּשָּׁמַיִם מִמַּעַל וַאֲשֶׁר בָּאָרֶץ מִתָּחַת וַאֲשֶׁר בַּמַּיִם מִתַּחַת לָאָרֶץ‎׃‎ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	Speak, David. 	דַּבֵּר דָּוִד׃ 
eng	hbo_Hebr	Your offspring will be as the dust of the earth, and you will spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south. In you and in your offspring, all the families of the earth will be blessed. 	וְהָיָה זַרְעֲךָ כַּעֲפַר הָאָרֶץ וּפָרַצְתָּ יָמָּה וָקֵדְמָה וְצָפֹנָה וָנֶגְבָּה וְנִבְרְכוּ בְךָ כָּל־מִשְׁפְּחֹת הָאֲדָמָה וּבְזַרְעֶךָ׃ 
