eng	slv	It won't be long before I come back. 	Nebude to trvať dlho, kým sa vrátim. 
eng	slv	Is she coming to the celebration? 	Príde na oslavu? 
eng	slv	Thanks for trusting me! 	Ďakujem za dôveru! 
eng	slv	Lead is metal. 	Olovo je kov. 
eng	slv	That is not my school. 	To nie je moja škola. 
eng	slv	The ampersand means "and". 	Znak '&' pomeni 'in'. 
eng	slv	Even when I'm lying down, I'm tired. 	Dokonca i keď ležím, som unavený. 
eng	slv	Tom isn't a drummer, is he? 	Tom nie je bubeník, však? 
eng	slv	That's not a horse. It's a donkey. 	To nie je kôň. Je to osol. 
eng	slv	I wanted to see what was inside. 	Chcel som vidieť, čo je vnútri. 
eng	slv	The snake wrapped itself around her leg. 	Had sa obtočil okolo jej nohy. 
eng	slv	You didn't visit Slovakia. 	Nenavštívil si Slovensko. 
eng	slv	Tom found a spoon. 	Tom našiel lyžicu. 
eng	slv	Are they going to Italy for a holiday? 	Idú do Talianska na dovolenku? 
eng	slv	We are going to have a baby next month. 	Budúci mesiac sa nám narodí dieťa. 
eng	slv	He is protecting us. 	On nás ochraňuje. 
eng	slv	We're patriots. 	Sme vlastenci. 
eng	slv	I love blueberries. 	Milujem čučoriedky. 
eng	slv	I think that it'll rain tomorrow. 	Myslím, že zajtra bude pršať. 
eng	slv	Every day counts. 	Každý deň sa počíta. 
eng	slv	We're heroes. 	Sme hrdinovia. 
eng	slv	We sell flowers and plants. 	Predávame kvety a rastliny. 
eng	slv	It's the oldest wooden building in existence. 	Je to najstaršia jestvujúca drevená budova. 
eng	slv	Every child knows that. 	Každé dieťa to vie. 
eng	slv	She lied. 	Klamala. 
eng	slv	How about October 20th at 2:30 p.m.? 	Čo tak 20. októbra o 14:30? 
eng	slv	Throw away the keys. 	Odhoďte kľúče. 
eng	slv	I met him last year. 	Stretol som ho minulý rok. 
eng	slv	These apples are for you. 	Tieto jablká sú pre teba. 
eng	slv	The girl talking to Tom is Mary. 	Dievča, rozprávajúce sa s Tomom, je Mária. 
eng	slv	Actually, I don't know. 	Vlastne, neviem. 
eng	slv	Tom isn't a little kid. 	Tom nie je malé dieťa. 
eng	slv	We are not rich. 	Nie sme bohaté. 
eng	slv	I got off the horse. 	Zosadol som z koňa. 
eng	slv	She spoke Czech. 	Hovorila česky. 
eng	slv	I will not give up, because I have something that is worth fighting for. 	Nevzdám sa, pretože mám niečo, za čo sa oplatí bojovať. 
eng	slv	Is that car new? 	To auto je nové? 
eng	slv	Tom is milking a cow. 	Tom dojí kravu. 
eng	slv	Yes, let's go! 	Ano, poďme ! 
eng	slv	Who composed this? 	Kto to zložil? 
eng	slv	We don't wear shoes in our house. 	V našom dome nenosíme topánky. 
eng	slv	Merry Christmas to you as well! 	Veselé Vianoce aj vám! 
eng	slv	He is always honest. 	Je vždy úprimný. 
eng	slv	Do you like that sofa? 	Páči sa vám tá pohovka? 
eng	slv	I have two colleagues who are Bulgarian. That is why I want to learn Bulgarian. 	Mám dvoch spolupracovníkov z Bulharska. Preto sa chcem naučiť bulharsky. 
eng	slv	You shall not steal. 	Nepokradneš! 
eng	slv	You're all lying. 	Všetci klamete. 
eng	slv	I will check what time the train arrives. 	Pozriem kedy prichádza vlak. 
eng	slv	His voice was trembling with anger. 	Hlas sa mu chvel hnevom. 
eng	slv	How much is it going to roughly cost me to get to the airport from here. 	Koľko ma to bude zhruba stáť dostať sa odtiaľto na letisko? 
eng	slv	Ten thousand plus five thousand five hundred makes fifteen thousand five hundred. 	Desaťtisíc plus päťtisíc päťsto sa rovná pätnásťtisíc päťsto. 
eng	slv	I'll check what time the train arrives. 	Pozriem kedy prichádza vlak. 
eng	slv	Have our guests from England arrived yet? 	Prišli už naši hostia z Anglicka? 
eng	slv	Tomorrow will take care of itself. 	Zajtrajšok sa o seba postará sám. 
eng	slv	I am eating the apple. 	Jem jablko. 
eng	slv	She read a prayer. 	Prečítala modlitbu. 
eng	slv	Stop pretending to be someone else just to have someone in your life. The right people will like you just as you are, and the rest of them won't stick around. 	Prestaň predstierať, že si niekým iným, len aby si si pritiahol ľudí do života. Tí správni ľudia ťa budú máš radi takého, aký si a tí ostatní aj tak pri tebe nevydržia. 
eng	slv	Do you think that we'll win? 	Myslíš, že vyhráme? 
eng	slv	This is goat cheese. 	Toto je kozí syr. 
eng	slv	My mother doesn’t like this coffee. 	Moje mama nemá rada túto kávu. 
eng	slv	We're glad we did that. 	Sme radi, že sme to urobili. 
eng	slv	He didn't make the beds. 	Neustlal postele. 
eng	slv	I wasn't expecting you to be here. 	Nečakal som, že tu budeš. 
eng	slv	I have a very bad headache. 	Me zelo močno boli glava. 
eng	slv	I have no idea who her uncle is. 	Netuším, kto je jej strýko. 
eng	slv	I haven't seen this kind of plant before. 	Takúto rastlinku som ešte nevidel. 
eng	slv	If there were no sun, we wouldn't be able to live. 	Keby nebolo slnka, nemohli by sme žiť. 
eng	slv	Aren't you going on holiday to Rome? 	Nejdeš na dovolenku do Ríma? 
eng	slv	I'm very happy to be alive. 	Som veľmi šťastná, že žijem. 
eng	slv	They're afraid of flying. 	Boja sa lietať. 
eng	slv	It was amazing to meet you in real life! 	Bolo úžasné stretnúť ťa v skutočnom živote! 
eng	slv	I know how to say a few words in French. 	Viem povedať niekoľko slov po francúzsky. 
eng	slv	Who won the match? 	Kto vyhral zápas. 
eng	slv	Everything will be decided today. 	O všetkom sa rozhodne dnes. 
eng	slv	Why is your mouth open? 	Prečo máš otvorené ústa? 
eng	slv	This potato is uncookable. 	Tega krompirja ni mogoče kuhati. 
eng	slv	We have to postpone our meeting. 	Musíme odložiť naše stretnutie. 
eng	slv	I walked across the bridge. 	Prešiel som cez most. 
eng	slv	What can I teach Tom? 	Čo môžem naučiť Toma? 
eng	slv	It was obvious to everyone Tom didn't want to be there. 	Každému bolo očividné, že tam Tom nechce byť. 
eng	slv	Let's go back and tell him goodbye. 	Vráťme sa a rozlúčme sa s ním. 
eng	slv	“Go, she's waiting for you”. 	„Choď, čaká ťa.” 
eng	slv	It's important that you answer. 	Je dôležité, aby si odpovedal. 
eng	slv	I want to escape to a cottage and never return. 	Chcem utiecť na chalupu a už nikdy sa nevrátiť. 
eng	slv	We are eating bread. 	Jeme chlieb. 
eng	slv	Turn on the computer. 	Zapni počítač. 
eng	slv	I love raspberries. 	Milujem maliny. 
eng	slv	Whose cat is that? 	Čia je to mačka? 
eng	slv	I'm in a hurry. Sorry! 	Ponáhľam sa. Prepáčte! 
eng	slv	David went to buy some food. 	Dávid šiel kúpiť nejaké jedlo. 
eng	slv	The guy talking to Mary is Tom. 	Chlap hovoriaci s Máriou a Tomom. 
eng	slv	This is a honeycomb. 	Toto je včelí plást. 
eng	slv	We're having a sale today. 	Dnes máme výpredaj. 
eng	slv	The bee is buzzing. 	Včela bzučí. 
eng	slv	It was him who broke the vase. 	Bol to on, kto rozbil vázu. 
eng	slv	Our beds are made. 	Naše postele sú ustlané. 
eng	slv	The squirrel is climbing the tree. 	Veverička lezie po strome. 
eng	slv	You didn't specify the color. 	Neurčili ste farbu. 
eng	slv	If there was no sun, we would not be able to live. 	Keby nebolo slnka, nemohli by sme žiť. 
eng	slv	I need a textbook on Bulgarian language. 	Potrebujem učebnicu bulharčiny. 
eng	slv	How long do cats live? 	Ako dlho žijú mačky? 
eng	slv	Does Tom live in this area? 	Býva Tom v tejto oblasti? 
eng	slv	I like cranberries. 	Mám rád brusnice. 
eng	slv	Is this bread fresh? 	Je tento chlieb čerstvý? 
eng	slv	This region is famous for its grapes. 	Táto oblasť je známa svojím hroznom. 
eng	slv	My hair grows too slowly. 	Moje vlasy rastú príliš pomaly. 
eng	slv	How many students go to your school? 	Koľko žiakov chodí do vašej školy? 
eng	slv	People say Tom is very smart. 	Ľudia hovoria, že Tom je veľmi chytrý. 
eng	slv	This machine doesn't work. 	Tento stroj nejde. 
eng	slv	A blackberry picker picks 25 buckets a day. 	Zberač černíc nazbiera 25 vedier denne. 
eng	slv	I did the same. 	Urobil som to isté. 
eng	slv	I thought he was honest. 	Myslel som, že je čestný. 
eng	slv	I dreamed I could fly. 	Snívalo sa mi, že môžem lietať. 
eng	slv	I didn't take Tom's threats seriously. 	Nebral som Tomove vyhrážky vážne. 
eng	slv	The same goes for me. 	To isté platí pre mňa. 
eng	slv	We need to do it right now. 	Musíme to urobiť ihneď. 
eng	slv	It was cheaper than I had thought it would be. 	Bolo to lacnejšie, než som predpokladal. 
eng	slv	I live on the tenth floor. 	Bývam na desiatom poschodí. 
eng	slv	It's time you went to bed. Turn off the radio. 	Je čas ísť spať. Vypni rádio. 
eng	slv	Have you ever played chess? 	Hral si už niekedy šach? 
eng	slv	Tom, you should go. 	Tom, mal by si ísť. 
eng	slv	The water isn't cold. 	Voda ni hladna. 
eng	slv	My dream is to study Slovak in Bratislava. 	Mojím snom je študovať slovenčinu v Bratislave. 
eng	slv	It doesn't matter if he'll come or not. 	Nezáleží na tom, či príde alebo nie. 
eng	slv	Do you like this carpet? 	Páči sa ti tento koberec? 
eng	slv	I see a castle. 	Vidím zámok. 
eng	slv	I'm very happy to be alive. 	Som veľmi šťastný, že žijem. 
eng	slv	If you will come we will come as well. 	Ak prídete vy, prídeme i my. 
eng	slv	He hasn't made the beds. 	Neustlal postele. 
eng	slv	He will see them this evening. 	Uvidí ich dnes večer. 
eng	slv	Tom isn't a cook. 	Tom nie je kuchár. 
eng	slv	We gave him the apple. 	Dali sme mu jablko. 
eng	slv	I want to buy a new home. 	Chcem kúpiť nový dom. 
eng	slv	Tom wasn't sad. 	Tom nebol smutný. 
eng	slv	We need to do it now. 	Musíme to urobiť teraz. 
eng	slv	Tom didn't need that money. 	Tom nepotreboval tie peniaze. 
eng	slv	Stop the broadcast. 	Zastavte vysielanie. 
eng	slv	Did you receive it? 	Obdržali ste to? 
eng	slv	I don't know how to explain it to you. 	Neviem, ako ti to mám vysvetliť. 
eng	slv	We're eating bread. 	Jeme chlieb. 
eng	slv	He got lost in the fog of memories. 	Stratil sa v hmle spomienok. 
eng	slv	You're a thief, Tom. 	Si zlodej, Tom. 
eng	slv	You were in Berlin. 	Boli ste v Berlíne. 
eng	slv	It was cheaper than I'd thought it would be. 	Bolo to lacnejšie, než som predpokladal. 
eng	slv	The soap smells good. 	Mydlo dobre vonia. 
eng	slv	I'm lost. Can you help me? 	Stratil som sa. Môžete mi pomôcť? 
eng	slv	Tom speaks Russian. 	Tom hovorí rusky. 
eng	slv	I hope to see her this year. 	Dúfam, že ju uvidím tento rok. 
eng	slv	We each paid five thousand. 	Zaplatili sme po päťsto. 
eng	slv	My suit is grey. 	Môj oblek je šedý. 
eng	slv	In case of fire, I would grab my flute and escape. 	V prípade požiaru by som schmatol svoju flautu a utiekol. 
eng	slv	The blueberries are defrosting on the table. 	Čučoriedky sa rozmrazujú na stole. 
eng	slv	This machine does not work. 	Tento stroj nejde. 
eng	slv	I am married to a Polish woman. 	Moja žena je Poľka. 
eng	slv	Our beds are made. 	Naše postele sú postlané. 
eng	slv	The small community has a new language. 	Ta malá komunita má nový jazyk. 
eng	slv	I hope that you're right. 	Dúfam, že máš pravdu. 
eng	slv	Where are all my files? 	Kde sú všetky moje súbory? 
eng	slv	I will do everything I can to help. 	Urobím všetko, čo môžem, aby som pomohol. 
eng	slv	Will it be possible to get there before dark? 	Bude možné dostať sa tam pred zotmením? 
eng	slv	I ran to the bus stop. 	Bežal som na autobusovú zastávku. 
eng	slv	You need to break this bad habit. 	Musíte sa zbaviť tohto zlozvyku. 
eng	slv	He had forgotten that he had a French lesson today. 	Zabudol, že má dnes hodinu francúzštiny. 
eng	slv	I have done the same. 	Urobil som to isté. 
eng	slv	There is a big tree in front of my house. 	Pred mojím domom je veľký strom. 
eng	slv	You've been a great help to us. 	Veľmi ste nám pomohli. 
eng	slv	We greeted each other. 	Pozdravili sme sa. 
eng	slv	Their son is sick. 	Ich syn je chorý. 
eng	slv	The book is on the table and the pen is on the windowsill. 	Kniha je na stole a pero na podokenici. 
eng	slv	Tom is a year older than us. 	Tom je od nás o rok starší. 
eng	slv	We have to do it now. 	Musíme to urobiť teraz. 
eng	slv	She was writing to me while drinking her tea. 	Písala mi, pijúc čaj. 
eng	slv	Our beds are made. 	Naše postele sú zastlané. 
eng	slv	The sound of the bell woke me. 	Zvuk zvonenia ma prebudil. 
eng	slv	The game was postponed until next Monday. 	Hra bola odložená na budúci pondelok. 
eng	slv	Let's do that next Monday. 	Urobme to budúci pondelok. 
eng	slv	I became sleepy after lunch. 	Po obede sa mi zachcelo spať. 
eng	slv	Algeria's flag has three colors: green, white and red. 	Alžírska vlajka má tri farby: zelenú, bielu a červenú. 
eng	slv	The baby ceased crying. 	Bábätko prestalo plakať. 
eng	slv	I want to learn as many languages as possible. 	Chcem sa naučiť čo najviac jazykov. 
eng	slv	May I participate? 	Môžem sa zúčastniť? 
eng	slv	There is a lot of food and bottles of wine on the table. 	Na stole je veľa jedla a fliaš vína. 
eng	slv	The weather was magnificent. 	Počasie bolo nádherné. 
eng	slv	I'm sorry, but your name isn't on the list. 	Žal mi je, ampak vašega imena ni na seznamu. 
eng	slv	Unfortunately we didn't receive your answer. 	Žiaľ, nedostali sme vašu odpoveď. 
eng	slv	It’s a huge pleasure for me to be here with all of you. 	Je pre mňa veľkým potešením byť tu s vami všetkými. 
eng	slv	They're going in the wrong direction. 	Idú zlým smerom. 
eng	slv	I think that it's strange. 	Myslím, že je to zvláštne. 
eng	slv	My dream is to study Slovene in Ljubljana. 	Mojím snom je učiť sa slovinsky v Ľubľane. 
eng	slv	Who wants to go with me? 	Kto chce ísť so mnou? 
eng	slv	I see a castle. 	Vidím hrad. 
eng	slv	In case you come to Rio, I will be your guide. 	V prípade, že prídeš do Ria, budem tvojím sprievodcom. 
eng	slv	Tom is reading a book about gardening. 	Tom číta knihu o záhradkárstve. 
eng	slv	We are not rich. 	Nie sme bohatí. 
eng	slv	We don't meet anyone by chance. 	Nikoho nestretávame náhodou. 
eng	slv	I bought a kitten. 	Kúpil som mačiatko. 
eng	slv	Why do you follow those perverted rules? 	Prečo dodržiavate tieto zvrátené pravidlá? 
eng	slv	In case of fire, I'd grab my flute and escape. 	V prípade požiaru by som schmatol svoju flautu a utiekol. 
eng	slv	When you learn a language, you don't just learn words. 	Keď sa učíš jazyk, neučíš sa iba slová. 
eng	slv	I enjoy learning languages. 	Rád sa učím jazyky. 
eng	slv	The cat is sleeping on the couch. 	Mačka spí na pohovke. 
