eng	slv	Would you have been able to do it? 	Boli by ste to schopní urobiť? 
eng	slv	Bring the water to a boil before adding the noodles. 	Pred pridaním rezancov nechajte vodu zovrieť. 
eng	slv	Would you have been able to do it? 	Bol by si to schopný urobiť? 
eng	slv	The Lord God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to cultivate and keep it. 	I vzal Pán, Boh, človeka a umiestnil ho v raji Edenu, aby ho obrábal a strážil. 
eng	slv	I am in London. 	Som v Londýne. 
eng	slv	Tom is Bulgarian. 	Tom je Bulhar. 
eng	slv	Under the rule of Gaddafi the residents of Libya lived in prosperity, it was a safe and stable country. 	Za vlády Kaddáfiho obyvatelia Líbye žili v blahobyte, bola to bezpečná a stabilná krajina. 
eng	slv	By the way, do you speak Ukrainian fluently? 	Mimochodom, hovoríte plynule ukrajinsky? 
eng	slv	The farmer sowed barley. 	Gazda zasial jačmeň. 
eng	slv	Where is Lebanon? 	Kde je Libanon? 
eng	slv	You've done everything right. 	Všetko ste urobili správne. 
eng	slv	You can't conjugate this word because it's not a verb. 	Nemôžete časovať toto slovo, pretože to nie je sloveso. 
eng	slv	It's been a week since I last saw Tom. 	Uplynul týždeň, čo som naposledy videl Toma. 
eng	slv	Here's another example. 	Tu je ďalší príklad. 
eng	slv	Karl Valentin was a philosopher. 	Karl Valentin je bil filozof. 
eng	slv	Tom bought us something to eat. 	Tom nám kúpil niečo na jedenie. 
eng	slv	Buy me this book. 	Kúp mi túto knihu. 
eng	slv	Nobody knew what awaited us. 	Nikto nevedel, čo nás čaká. 
eng	slv	You've done everything right. 	Všetko si urobil správne. 
eng	slv	What is a verb? 	Čo je sloveso? 
eng	slv	When did you get to Kyoto? 	Kedy si dorazila do Kjóta? 
eng	slv	What's a verb? 	Čo je sloveso? 
eng	slv	This is not surprising to me at all. 	Toto ma vôbec neprekvapuje. 
eng	slv	They declined the invitation. 	Odmietli pozvanie. 
eng	slv	I'm the one who spoke with the Polish ambassador. 	To ja som hovoril s poľským veľvyslancom. 
eng	slv	I'm the one who spoke with the Polish ambassador. 	To ja som hovorila s poľským veľvyslancom. 
eng	slv	Where's Lebanon? 	Kde je Libanon? 
eng	slv	When did you get to Kyoto? 	Kedy si dorazil do Kjóta? 
eng	slv	Read the rules. 	Prečítaj si pravidlá. 
eng	slv	There weren't any pencils in the drawer. 	V zásuvke neboli žiadne ceruzky. 
eng	slv	This is my story. 	Toto je môj príbeh. 
eng	slv	I thought Tom would be there, and he was. 	Myslel som, že tam Tom bude a bol. 
eng	slv	Buy me this book. 	Kúpte mi túto knihu. 
eng	slv	In other words, she wants to reject the proposal. 	Inými slovami, ponuku chce odmietnuť. 
eng	slv	Stay with me for a few days. 	Zostaň so mnou niekoľko dní. 
eng	slv	Buy three big onions if you can. 	Ak môžete, kúpte tri veľké cibule. 
eng	slv	Whose is this textbook? 	Koho je táto učebnica? 
eng	slv	He took a nap. 	Zdriemol si. 
eng	slv	I thought that Tom would be there, and he was. 	Myslel som, že tam Tom bude a bol. 
eng	slv	It's me again. 	Zas som to ja. 
eng	slv	Tom was going to buy a gun, but Mary talked him out of it. 	Tom chcel kúpiť pištoľ, ale Mária ho od toho odhovorila. 
eng	slv	Where's my magazine? 	Kde je môj časopis? 
eng	slv	I didn't know Tom speaks French. 	Nevedel som, že Tom vie po francúzsky. 
eng	slv	I'll be there at five. 	O piatej som tam. 
eng	slv	Mary needed a coat. 	Mária potrebovala kabát. 
eng	slv	You are fifty. 	Máš päťdesiat rokov. 
eng	slv	What beautiful, beautiful eyes! 	Aké nádherné, prenádherné oči! 
eng	slv	Buy three big onions if you can. 	Ak môžeš, kúp tri veľké cibule. 
eng	slv	Bring the water to a boil before adding the noodles. 	Pred pridaním rezancov priveďte vodu do varu. 
eng	slv	Tom isn't scared of ghosts. 	Tom sa nebojí duchov. 
eng	slv	That's what Tom told Mary. 	To povedal Tom Márii. 
eng	slv	When did you get to Kyoto? 	Kedy ste dorazili do Kjóta? 
eng	slv	If there's anything else you need, let me know. 	Ak by ste ešte niečo potrebovali, dajte mi vedieť. 
eng	slv	I came, I saw, I won 	Prišiel som, videl som, zvíťazil som. 
eng	slv	You must read the textbook closely. 	Musíte pozorne čítať učebnicu. 
eng	slv	Tom's Bulgarian. 	Tom je Bulhar. 
eng	slv	There's still a café on the third floor. 	Na treťom poschodí je ešte jedna kaviareň. 
eng	slv	No one knew what awaited us. 	Nikto nevedel, čo nás čaká. 
eng	slv	Nobody explained anything to us. 	Nikto nám nič nevysvetlil. 
eng	slv	My name was the last one on the list. 	Moje meno bolo posledné na zozname. 
eng	slv	The farmer has sown barley. 	Gazda zasial jačmeň. 
eng	slv	Tom couldn't figure out how to get the box open. 	Tom nevedel prísť na to, ako otvoriť krabicu. 
eng	slv	The beans were delicious. 	Fazule boli vynikajúce. 
eng	slv	No one explained anything to us. 	Nikto nám nič nevysvetlil. 
eng	slv	Winter is cold. 	Zima je studená. 
eng	slv	Tom isn't a captain. He's a lieutenant. 	Tom nie je kapitán. Je poručík. 
eng	slv	Buy this book for me. 	Kúp mi túto knihu. 
eng	slv	Buy this book for me. 	Kúpte mi túto knihu. 
eng	slv	And the Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to work and take care of it. 	I vzal Pán, Boh, človeka a umiestnil ho v raji Edenu, aby ho obrábal a strážil. 
eng	slv	Let's begin right away. 	Hneď začnime. 
eng	slv	Stay with me for a few days. 	Zostaňte so mnou niekoľko dní. 
eng	slv	Whose is this textbook? 	Čia je táto učebnica? 
eng	slv	Tom bought us something to eat. 	Tom nám kúpil niečo pod zub. 
eng	slv	The beans were delicious. 	Fazule boli výborné. 
eng	slv	Bring the water to a boil before adding the noodles. 	Pred pridaním rezancov uveďte vodu do varu. 
eng	slv	By the way, do you speak Ukrainian fluently? 	Mimochodom, hovoríš plynule ukrajinsky? 
eng	slv	Would you have been able to do it? 	Bola by si to schopná urobiť? 
eng	slv	Adjectives end in the vowel "a". 	Prídavné mená sa končia na samohlásku „a“. 
eng	slv	Read the rules. 	Prečítajte si pravidlá. 
eng	slv	You can't conjugate this word because it's not a verb. 	Nemôžeš časovať toto slovo, pretože to nie je sloveso. 
