eng	pdc	Blast!	Dunnerwedder!
eng	pdc	That was well written.	Das waar gut gschriwwe.
eng	pdc	How are you doing?	Wie haanscht du?
eng	pdc	The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.	Die Furcht vum Herr iss der Ohfang vun Eisicht.
eng	pdc	January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November and December are the twelve months of the year.	Yenner, Hanning, Matz, Abrill, Moi, Yuni, Yuli, Aaguscht, September, Oktower, November un Diesember sinn die zwelf Munet im Yaahr.
eng	pdc	I wish you a Happy New Year.	Ich winsch dir en glicklich nei Yaahr.
eng	pdc	The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.	Di Furcht fumm Hah is da Ohfang funn Eisicht.
eng	pdc	Why not?	Ferwas naett?
eng	pdc	Do you have a car?	Hoscht du en Maschien?
eng	pdc	He was a poet and a diplomat.	Er waar een Dichder un een Diplomat.
eng	pdc	"Where do you live?" "I live in Tokyo."	"Wu wuhnscht du?" "Ich wuhn in Tokyo."
eng	pdc	Happy New Year!	Hallich Neiyaahr!
eng	pdc	Tom is gone.	Der Tom iss weeg.
eng	pdc	What time is it?	Was fer Zeit hawwe mer?
eng	pdc	Where are you from?	Wu kummscht du bei?
eng	pdc	My name is Tom.	Ich heisse der Tom.
eng	pdc	Will the groundhog see his shadow?	Sehnt die Grundsau ihre Shadde?
eng	pdc	Are you happy?	Bischt du froh?
eng	pdc	Good morning!	Guder Mariye!
eng	pdc	January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November and December are the twelve months of the year.	Yenner, Hanning, Matz, Abrill, Moi, Tschunn, Tschulei, Aaguscht, September, Oktower, Nofember un Diesember sinn die zwelf Munet im Yaahr.
eng	pdc	Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday are the seven days of the week.	Mundaag, Dinschdaag, Mittwoch, Dunnerschdaag, Freidaag, Samschdaag un Sunndaag sin die siwwe Daage im Woch.
eng	pdc	February second is Groundhog Day.	Der zwitte vun Hanning iss Grundsau Daag.
eng	pdc	He was a poet and diplomat.	Er waar een Dichder un een Diplomat.
eng	pdc	"How are you?" "I am fine, thank you."	"Wie bischt du?" "Ich bin gut, danke."
eng	pdc	I don't know.	Ich weiss naett.
eng	pdc	Take care.	Mach's gut.
eng	pdc	What time is it?	Was Zeit iss es?
eng	pdc	What is your name?	Wie heischt du?
eng	pdc	Good day!	Guder Daag!
eng	pdc	"Are you hetero or lesbian?" "I am hetero"	"Bist du hetero oder lesbisch?" "Ich bin hetero."
eng	pdc	Good afternoon!	Guder Nummidaag!
eng	pdc	See you later!	Sehn dich schpeeder!
eng	pdc	What time is it?	Wie schpot iss es?
eng	pdc	What is your name?	Was iss dei Naame?
eng	pdc	Good evening!	Guder Owed!
eng	pdc	To be or not to be, that is the question.	Sei oder net sei, des iss die Fraag.
eng	pdc	That was well writ.	Das waar gut gschriwwe.
eng	pdc	One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.	Eens, zwee, drei, vier, fimf, sechs, siwwe, acht, nein, zehe.
eng	pdc	I wish you all a Happy New Year.	Ich winsch eich all en glicklich nei Yaahr.
eng	pdc	How many cars do you have?	Wieviel Maschiene hoscht du?
eng	pdc	Tom lives on the other side of the valley.	Der Tom wuhnt auf die anneri Seit vun es Daal.
eng	pdc	What time is it?	Was fer Zeit hemmer?
eng	pdc	I don't speak English.	Ich schwetz keen Englisch.
eng	pdc	Those are my shoes.	Selli sinn meene Schuhe.
eng	pdc	Good night!	Guti Nacht!
eng	pdc	Where do you live?	Wu wuhnscht du?
eng	pdc	Are you following me?	Folgsht du mir?
eng	pdc	What language do you speak at home?	Welli Sprooch schwetscht du am Heemet?
eng	pdc	Are you his mother?	Bischt du seine Mudder?
eng	pdc	Welcome to Tatoeba!	Wilkumm bei Tatoeba.
eng	pdc	Goodbye.	Mach's gut.
eng	pdc	Good day, how are you?	Guder daag, wie bischt?
eng	pdc	What language do you speak at home?	Welli Sprooch schwetzt dihr am Heemet?
