ara	eng	سامي يعيش في حمص، سوريا. 	Sami lives in Homs, Syria. 
ara	eng	الرَّبُّ أَعْطَى وَالرَّبُّ أَخَذَ. 	The Lord gave and the Lord has taken. 
ara	eng	لا أشعر بالآسف لأي شخص 	I don't feel sorry for anybody. 
arz	eng	في 1991 كنت بشتغل في فرنسا. 	In nineteen ninety-one, I was working in France. 
arz	eng	الدواين دول بيشتغلوا بشكل مختلف. 	These two drugs work differently. 
ara	eng	تحدث يسرائيل ديفيد وايس في نفس المؤتمر مثل ديفيد دوك, الزعيم السابق لحركة كو كلوكس كلان. 	Yisroel Dovid Weiss shared a podium with David Duke, the former Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan. 
ara	eng	قال زيد: هذا نهار جميل 	Zaid said, "It's a beautiful day." 
arz	eng	توم مبيخليش ولاده يتكلموا فرنساوي في البيت. 	Tom doesn't let his children speak French at home. 
ara	eng	نريد حلاً سلمياً. 	We want a peaceful solution. 
ara	eng	أَذِنَ هِرَقْلُ لِعُظَمَاءِ الرُّومِ فِي دَسْكَرَةٍ لَهُ بِحِمْصَ ثُمَّ أَمَرَ بِأَبْوَابِهَا فَغُلِّقَتْ. 	Heraclius invited all the heads of the Byzantines to assemble in his palace at Homs. When they assembled, he ordered that all the doors of his palace be closed. 
ara	eng	الرُّسُلُ تُبْعَثُ فِي نَسَبِ قَوْمِهَا. 	all the Apostles come from noble families amongst their respective peoples. 
arz	eng	توم مابصش عليه حتى. 	Tom wouldn't even look at it. 
arz	eng	توم مش مزارع، صح؟ 	Tom isn't a farmer, is he? 
ara	eng	أتحدث لغة إيدو. 	I speak Ido. 
ara	eng	إِنَّمَا الْأَعْمَالُ بِالنِّيَّاتِ وَإِنَّمَا لِكُلِّ امْرِئٍ مَا نَوَى. 	The reward of deeds depends upon the intentions and every person will get the reward according to what he has intended. 
arz	eng	الاجتماع هيبدأ الساعة كام؟ 	What time does the meeting begin? 
ara	eng	وجدت ثلاث قطع نقديّة من فضّة في صندوق خشبي في العليّة. 	I found three silver coins in an old wooden box in the attic. 
arz	eng	هو راح مكان والده. 	He went instead of his father. 
ara	eng	من تساوى يوماه فهو مغبون. 	He whose two days are equal, is a loser. 
ara	eng	ذهب بدلاً عن والده. 	He went instead of his father. 
ara	eng	يعيش سامي في حلب، سوريا. 	Sami lives in Aleppo, Syria. 
ara	eng	إلياس نبي من عند الله. 	Elijah is a prophet of God. 
arz	eng	توم مكنش واقف في الطابور. 	Tom wasn't standing in line. 
ara	eng	لَا يُؤْمِنُ أَحَدُكُمْ حَتَّى يُحِبَّ لِأَخِيهِ مَا يُحِبُّ لِنَفْسِهِ. 	None of you will have faith till he wishes for his brother what he likes for himself. 
ara	eng	هارون و أخوه موسى نبيان من عند الله. 	Aaron and his brother Moses were prophets of God. 
arz	eng	راح بدل باباه. 	He went instead of his father. 
arq	eng	سامي ماشي سيخي. 	Sami is not a Sikh. 
ara	eng	هتلر حلم بتحالف مع الإمبراطورية البريطانية. 	Hitler dreamt of an alliance with the British Empire. 
arz	eng	أنا همشي كمان دقيقة. 	I'm leaving in one minute. 
arz	eng	أيوة أنا. 	Speaking. 
ara	eng	هو يحبكم كثيرًا. 	He loves you guys very much. 
ara	eng	الخنازير أذكى من الكلاب والقطط. 	Pigs are smarter than dogs and cats. 
arz	eng	البس لبس المدرسة. 	Put your school uniform on. 
ara	eng	غالبًا يُفضل توم عمل الأشياء بنفسه 	In general, Tom likes to do things himself. 
ara	eng	طارت النحلة من النافذة. 	The bee flew out of the window. 
ara	eng	يعمل زيد محاسبًا في الشركة 	Zaid works as an accountant for the company. 
ara	eng	تصرف بأدب 	Behave well. 
ara	eng	الأمة تطلب العدالة الاجتماعية. 	The nation demands social justice. 
arz	eng	مينفعش نشتغل في الحر ده. 	We can't work in this heat. 
ara	eng	الأمة تطلب العدالة الاجتماعية. 	The people demand social justice. 
ara	eng	أنسجم جيدًا مع زملائي في العمل 	I get along with my coworkers. 
ara	eng	هَلْ يَرْتَدُّ أَحَدٌ مِنْهُمْ سَخْطَةً لِدِينِهِ بَعْدَ أَنْ يَدْخُلَ فِيهِ ؟ 	Does anybody amongst those who embrace his religion become displeased and renounce the religion afterwards? 
ara	eng	أنا لن أطلب منك شيء 	I won't ask you for anything. 
arz	eng	التفاحة دي شكلها مش قد كده. 	That apple doesn't look too good. 
ara	eng	لديهم ثلاثة أطفال صغار 	They have three young children. 
ara	eng	ثَلَاثٌ مَنْ كُنَّ فِيهِ وَجَدَ حَلَاوَةَ الْإِيمَانِ. 	Whoever possesses the following three qualities will have the sweetness of faith. 
arz	eng	طبيعي. 	Naturally. 
ara	eng	كن مؤدبًا. 	Behave well. 
ara	eng	يَا لَيْتَنِي فِيهَا جَذَعًا لَيْتَنِي أَكُونُ حَيًّا إِذْ يُخْرِجُكَ قَوْمُكَ. 	I wish I were young and could live up to the time when your people would turn you out. 
arz	eng	أنا جاوبت خلاص. 	I already answered. 
arz	eng	توم بيقول إنه مش هييأس. 	Tom says he won't give up. 
arz	eng	قلت لتوم ميتسربعش. 	I told Tom not to rush. 
ara	eng	حساب سامي يبدو مزيفا. 	Sami's account seems fake. 
ara	eng	حُبِّبَ إِلَيْهِ الْخَلاَءُ. 	the love of seclusion was bestowed to him. 
arz	eng	توم مترباش في بوسطن. 	Tom wasn't raised in Boston. 
ara	eng	لم يكون توم بالمنزل يوم الاثنين 	Tom wasn't home on Monday. 
ara	eng	للأسف، لا أتذكر أي شيء. 	Unfortunately, I don't remember anything. 
ara	eng	الْمُسْلِمُ مَنْ سَلِمَ الْمُسْلِمُونَ مِنْ لِسَانِهِ وَيَدِهِ. 	A Muslim is the one who avoids harming Muslims with his tongue and hands. 
ara	eng	قَالَ: أَيُّكُمْ أَقْرَبُ نَسَبًا بِهَذَا الرَّجُلِ ؟ 	He said : Who amongst you is closely related to this man ? 
ara	eng	حياة السود مهمة. 	Black lives matter. 
ara	eng	أعيش في طرابلس، ليبيا. 	I live in Tripoli, Libya. 
ara	eng	أعيش في حلب، سوريا. 	I live in Aleppo, Syria. 
arz	eng	راجل التلج ساح خلاص. 	The snowman has already melted. 
ara	eng	طارت النحلة من النافذة. 	The bee flew out the window. 
ara	eng	السيخ يلبسون العمامات. 	Sikhs wear turbans. 
arz	eng	توم كان في نفس الفريق اللي كنت فيه. 	Tom was on the same team I was. 
arz	eng	تشرفنا، أنا اسمي كارلوس. 	Nice to meet you, my name is Carlos. 
ara	eng	لا تَعَوِل على شيء جيد قبل حدوثه 	Don't count your chickens before they hatch 
ara	eng	توم ليس اشتراكي. 	Tom isn't a socialist. 
ara	eng	يحيى وأبوه زكريا نبيان من عند الله. 	John and his father Zechariah were prophets of God. 
ara	eng	يبدو أنك ذكي. 	You seem sharp. 
arz	eng	اليونان جميلة. 	Greece is gorgeous. 
ara	eng	علم المحاسبة ضروري لنجاح أي شركة 	Accounting knowledge is necessary for the success of any company. 
arz	eng	في ناس بتحب توم، وناس لا. 	Some people like Tom, others not. 
ara	eng	مبارك انت, يا رب, إلهنا, ملك العالم، الذي جعلني كما أراد. 	Blessed are You, the Lord our God, King of the Universe, Who has made me according to His will. 
arz	eng	وعدت بنتي إني هعملها راجل تلج. 	I promised to my daughter that I would make a snowman for her. 
ara	eng	لا يُغْنِي البكاء على ما فات 	Don't cry over spilt milk 
ara	eng	لَقَدْ أَمِرَ أَمْرُ ابْنِ أَبِي كَبْشَةَ إِنَّهُ يَخَافُهُ مَلِكُ بَنِي الْأَصْفَرِ. 	the question of Ibn-Abi-Kabsha has become so prominent that even the King of Byzantine is afraid of him. 
arz	eng	النحلة طارت من الشباك. 	The bee flew out of the window. 
ara	eng	أنت لست بارعًا في هذا 	Don't give up your day job 
arz	eng	مكتبها في الدور العاشر. 	Her office is on the tenth floor. 
arz	eng	الكلب نايم تحت الترابيزة. 	The dog is sleeping under the table. 
arz	eng	دي صورة أختي الصغيرة. 	It's a picture of my younger sister. 
arz	eng	البسي لبس المدرسة. 	Put on your school uniform. 
ara	eng	أُحب اللغات السامية. 	I love Semitic languages. 
arz	eng	للأسف، مش فاكرة أي حاجة. 	Unfortunately, I don't remember anything. 
ara	eng	انا الشيطان. 	I'm the devil. 
arz	eng	لسه بفكر في اللي توم كان بيحاول يقولهولي. 	I am still thinking about what Tom was trying to tell me. 
ara	eng	بَيْنَا أَنَا أَمْشِي إِذْ سَمِعْتُ صَوْتًا مِنْ السَّمَاءِ. 	While I was walking, all of a sudden I heard a voice from the sky. 
arz	eng	توم أكيد مش كداب. 	Tom is certainly not a liar. 
ara	eng	توم ليس مترجم. 	Tom isn't an interpreter. 
arz	eng	توم مابصش عليها حتى. 	Tom wouldn't even look at it. 
arz	eng	البس لبس المدرسة. 	Put on your school uniform. 
ara	eng	عامل الناس كما تحب أن يعاملوك. 	Do unto others as you would have them do unto you 
arz	eng	اسمع اللي بقوله. 	Listen to what I say. 
ara	eng	يؤمن المسلمون أن عيسى ابن مريم نبي الله. 	Muslims believe that Jesus, the son of Mary, was a prophet of God. 
ara	eng	بَيْنَا أَنَا نَائِمٌ رَأَيْتُ النَّاسَ يُعْرَضُونَ عَلَيَّ. 	While I was sleeping I saw in a dream some people. 
arz	eng	اسمعوا اللي بقوله. 	Listen to what I say. 
ara	eng	لَمْ يَأْتِ رَجُلٌ قَطُّ بِمِثْلِ مَا جِئْتَ بِهِ إِلَّا عُودِيَ. 	Any Man who came with something similar to what you have brought was treated with hostility. 
arz	eng	اسمعي اللي بقوله. 	Listen to what I say. 
ara	eng	هل عائلتك كبيرة؟ 	Do you come from a big family? 
ara	eng	حُبِّبَ إِلَيْهِ الْخَلَاءُ وَكَانَ يَخْلُو بِغَارِ حِرَاءٍ فَيَتَحَنَّثُ فِيهِ. 	he love of seclusion was bestowed to him ,He used to go in seclusion in the cave of Hira. 
ara	eng	أَعْرِفُ أَنَّهُ لَمْ يَكُنْ لِيَذَرَ الْكَذِبَ عَلَى النَّاسِ وَيَكْذِبَ عَلَى اللَّهِ. 	So I wondered how a person who does not tell a lie about others could ever tell a lie about Allah. 
ara	eng	كَانَ شَيْخٌ كَبِيرًا قَدْ عَمِيَ. 	He was an old man and had lost his eyesight. 
ara	eng	توم ليس مترجم. 	Tom isn't a translator. 
ara	eng	لَمْ يَنْشَبْ وَرَقَةُ أَنْ تُوُفِّيَ وَفَتَرَ الْوَحْيُ. 	But after a few days Waraqa died and the Divine Inspiration was also paused for a while. 
arz	eng	توم مش مترجم. 	Tom isn't a translator. 
arq	eng	سامي سيخي. 	Sami is a Sikh. 
ara	eng	إِنْ تَوَلَّيْتَ فَإِنَّ عَلَيْكَ إِثْمَ الْأَرِيسِيِّينَ. 	if you reject this you will have a sin of the peasants. 
arz	eng	توم أكيد مش كداب. 	Tom is definitely not a liar. 
ara	eng	حياة الفلسطينيين مهمة. 	Palestinian lives matter. 
ara	eng	سامي ليس سيخي. 	Sami is not a Sikh. 
ara	eng	الشعب يريد إسقاط النظام. 	The people want to overthrow the regime. 
arz	eng	توم اللي قال لي كده. 	Tom was the one who told me this. 
ara	eng	يَا مَعْشَرَ الرُّومِ هَلْ لَكُمْ فِي الْفَلَاحِ وَالرُّشْدِ وَأَنْ يَثْبُتَ مُلْكُكُمْ ؟ 	O Byzantines! do you want success, guidance and our empire to remain ? 
ara	eng	سأذهب إلى أوروبا الاسبوع المقبل. 	I'll be going to Europe next week. 
arz	eng	البسي لبس المدرسة. 	Put your school uniform on. 
ara	eng	هارون نبي و هو الأخ الأكبر لموسى في الديانات الإبراهيمية. 	Aaron was a prophet, and the elder brother of Moses in the Abrahamic religions. 
ara	eng	إِخْوَانُكُمْ خَوَلُكُمْ، جَعَلَهُمُ اللَّهُ تَحْتَ أَيْدِيكُمْ، فَمَنْ كَانَ أَخُوهُ تَحْتَ يَدِهِ فَلْيُطْعِمْهُ مِمَّا يَأْكُلُ، وَلْيُلْبِسْهُ مِمَّا يَلْبَسُ. 	Your slaves are your brothers and Allah has put them under your command. So whoever has a brother under his command should feed him of what he eats and dress him of what he wears. 
ara	eng	قَالَ لِخَدِيجَةَ: لَقَدْ خَشِيتُ عَلَى نَفْسِي. 	He said to Khadija "I fear that something may happen to me". 
ara	eng	الصورة تُغْنِي عن ألف كلمة. 	A picture is worth 1000 words. 
ara	eng	هَذَا النَّامُوسُ الَّذِي نَزَّلَ اللَّهُ عَلَى مُوسَى. 	This is the same one who keeps the secrets whom Allah had sent to Moses. 
ara	eng	توم مصاب بالثلاسيميا. 	Tom has thalassemia. 
arz	eng	راح مكان باباه. 	He went instead of his father. 
arz	eng	القطة نايمة على البنش. 	The cat is sleeping on the bench. 
ara	eng	لَقِيتُ أَبَا ذَرٍّ بِالرَّبَذَةِ وَعَلَيْهِ حُلَّةٌ وَعَلَى غُلَامِهِ حُلَّةٌ. 	At Ar-Rabadha I met Abu Dhar who was wearing a cloak, and his slave, too, was wearing a similar one. 
arz	eng	هي سابت لك رسالة. 	She left you a message. 
ara	eng	توم ليس اشتراكي. 	Tom is not a socialist. 
ara	eng	يَقُولُ: اعْبُدُوا اللَّهَ وَحْدَهُ وَلَا تُشْرِكُوا بِهِ شَيْئًا. 	He tells us to worship Allah and Allah alone and not to worship anything along with Him. 
ara	eng	من استوى يوماه فهو مغبون. 	He whose two days are equal, is a loser. 
ara	eng	لَوْ كَانَ مِنْ آبَائِهِ مِنْ مَلِكٍ قُلْتُ رَجُلٌ يَطْلُبُ مُلْكَ أَبِيهِ. 	If anyone of his ancestors was a king, I would have thought that this man wanted to take back his ancestral kingdom. 
ara	eng	السيخيون يلبسون العمامات. 	Sikhs wear turbans. 
ara	eng	حرم الإسلام الترويع 	Islam forbids terror. 
arz	eng	هي سابت لِك رسالة. 	She left you a message. 
arz	eng	قلت لتوم ميستعجلش. 	I told Tom not to rush. 
ara	eng	إِنِّي لَأُعْطِي الرَّجُلَ وَغَيْرُهُ أَحَبُّ إِلَيَّ مِنْهُ خَشْيَةَ أَنْ يَكُبَّهُ اللَّهُ فِي النَّارِ. 	I give to a person while another is dearer to me, for fear that he might be thrown on his face in the Fire by Allah. 
arz	eng	ايه المشكلة إني أريح يوم الحد؟ 	What is wrong about me resting on Sunday? 
ara	eng	يَا رَسُولَ اللَّهِ، كَيْفَ يَأْتِيكَ الْوَحْيُ ؟ 	O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How is the Divine Inspiration revealed to you? 
ara	eng	تعيش ليلى في حلب، سوريا. 	Layla lives in Aleppo, Syria. 
ara	eng	أنا لن أطلب منك شيء 	I don't ask you for anything. 
ara	eng	جَاءَهُ الْحَقُّ وَهُوَ فِي غَارِ حِرَاءٍ، فَجَاءَهُ الْمَلَكُ فَقَالَ: اقْرَأْ. 	Till suddenly the Truth descended upon him while he was in the cave of Hira, The angel came to him and asked him to read. 
ara	eng	الدولة القومية هي من مخرجات الحداثة 	The nation state is a product of modernity. 
ara	eng	كَانَ أَجْوَدَ النَّاسِ وَكَانَ أَجْوَدُ مَا يَكُونُ فِي رَمَضَانَ. 	He was the most generous of all the people, and he used to reach the peak in generosity in the month of Ramadan. 
ara	eng	الدنيا جميلة. 	The world is beautiful. 
ara	eng	لاَ تُكَلِّفُوهُمْ مَا يَغْلِبُهُمْ، فَإِنْ كَلَّفْتُمُوهُمْ فَأَعِينُوهُمْ. 	Do not ask them to do things beyond their capacity and if you do so, then help them. 
arz	eng	مين اكتشف علاج المرض ده؟ 	Who discovered the cure for that disease? 
ara	eng	الْحَيَاءُ مِنْ الْإِيمَانِ. 	Haya' is a part of faith. 
ara	eng	تحدث يسرائيل ديفيد وايس في نفس المؤتمر مثل ديفيد دوك, الزعيم السابق لحركة كو كلوكس كلان. 	Yisroel Dovid Weiss spoke at the same conference as David Duke, the former leader of the Ku Klux Klan. 
arz	eng	للأسف، مش فاكر أي حاجة. 	Unfortunately, I don't remember anything. 
ara	eng	العالم جميل. 	The world is beautiful. 
ara	eng	قَالَتْ خَدِيجَةُ: كَلَّا وَاللَّهِ مَا يُخْزِيكَ اللَّهُ أَبَدًا إِنَّكَ لَتَصِلُ الرَّحِمَ وَتَحْمِلُ الْكَلَّ وَتَكْسِبُ الْمَعْدُومَ وَتَقْرِي الضَّيْفَ وَتُعِينُ عَلَى نَوَائِبِ الْحَقِّ. 	Khadija said "Never! By Allah, Allah will never disgrace you. You keep good relations with your kith and kin, help the poor and the destitute, serve your guests generously and assist the deserving calamity-afflicted ones. 
arz	eng	اليونان جميلة. 	Greece is beautiful. 
ara	eng	أَوَمُخْرِجِيَّ هُمْ ؟ 	Will they drive me out ? 
ara	eng	سامي سيخي. 	Sami is a Sikh. 
arz	eng	منقدرش نشتغل في الحر ده. 	We can't work in this heat. 
ara	eng	هارون بن عمران، هو نبي الله. 	Aaron, the son of Amram, is a prophet of God. 
ara	eng	توم سرق كل المال من والديه. 	Tom has stolen all the money from his parents. 
ara	eng	العزر لودفيك زامنهوف, الذي كان يأمل في توحيد كل البشرية, سمى ابنه آدم. 	L. L. Zamenhof, who hoped to unite all of humanity, named his son Adam. 
ara	eng	غالبًا يُفضل توم عمل الأشياء بنفسه 	Tom likes to do almost everything himself. 
arz	eng	هروح أوروبا الاسبوع الجاي. 	I'll be going to Europe next week. 
arz	eng	احنا اتولدنا بعد الحرب. 	We were born after the war. 
ara	eng	أعيش في طرابلس، لبنان. 	I live in Tripoli, Lebanon. 
arz	eng	كنا بنقطف برقوق. 	We were picking plums. 
ara	eng	الموت لالملِك! 	Death to the king! 
arz	eng	أنت بتهزر ولا بتتكلم بجد؟ 	Are you kidding and not speaking in earnest? 
ara	eng	مبارك انت, يا رب, إلهنا, ملك العالم, الذي اختارنا من كل الأمم‎ ووهبنا توراته. مبارك انت, يا رب, معط التوراة. 	Blessed are You, the Eternal, our God, King of the Universe, who has chosen us from all the nations and given us His Torah. Blessed are You, the Eternal, giver of the Torah. 
ara	eng	هَلْ كُنْتُمْ تَتَّهِمُونَهُ بِالْكَذِبِ قَبْلَ أَنْ يَقُولَ مَا قَالَ ؟ 	Have you ever accused him of telling lies before his claim ? 
