eng	gos	How do you write your name? 	Hou schriefst dien noam? 
eng	gos	I started writing a new book yesterday. 	k Bin guster begund mit t schrieven van n nij bouk. 
eng	gos	We're colonels. 	Wie binnen kolonels. 
eng	gos	My name is Carlos. 	Mien noam is Carlos. 
eng	gos	Tom is a boy, and Mary is a girl. 	Tom is n jong en Mary is n wicht. 
eng	gos	Tom's house is made of wood. 	Tom zien hoes is van holt moakt. 
eng	gos	We like beer. 	Wie holden van bier. 
eng	gos	Erica went without saying goodbye. 	Erika verdween zunder òfschaaid te nemen. 
eng	gos	Do dogs dream? 	Dreumen honnen? 
eng	gos	There's a rat in the garage. 	Der zit n rat ien geroazie. 
eng	gos	What's that doing here? 	Wat dut dat hier? 
eng	gos	Many enemies attacked Rome. 	Veul vijanden villen Rome aan. 
eng	gos	Bacteria are microorganisms. 	Bakterien binnen mikro-organismen. 
eng	gos	Tom is a man, and I'm a woman. 	Tom is n man en k bin n vraauw. 
eng	gos	The seventh commandment is that you shall not steal. 	t Zeuvende gebod is da's nait stelen zelst. 
eng	gos	Why did you remain silent? 	Woarom bleefstoe stil? 
eng	gos	Is rust a form of wear? 	Is rost n vörm van slietoazie? 
eng	gos	Cain wasn't a good brother. 	Kain was gain goie bruier. 
eng	gos	Is everything okay after yesterday's earthquake? 	Is t mit eerdbeven van guster apmoal goud goan? 
eng	gos	Why did you remain silent? 	Woarom bleven joe stil? 
eng	gos	The kids play in the park. 	Kiender speulen ien t paark. 
eng	gos	Tom's brother Tim is an enchanter who's scared of rabbits. 	Tom zien bruier Tim is n tjoender dij baang veur knienen is. 
eng	gos	Why did you remain silent? 	Woarom swiegen joe? 
eng	gos	In Canada we sleep in a bed, not on the floor. 	Ien Kanada sloapen wie op bèr, nait op grond. 
eng	gos	Maria lives in Helsinki. 	Maria woont ien Helsinki. 
eng	gos	We're smokers. 	Wie binnen smokers. 
eng	gos	I started reading a new book yesterday. 	k Begunde guster n nij bouk te lezen. 
eng	gos	I hope you like bears. 	k Hoop da's van beren holdst. 
eng	gos	Tom's fursona is a fox named Neon. 	Tom zien fursonoa is n vos noamd Neon. 
eng	gos	Why did you remain silent? 	Woarom swiegstoe? 
eng	gos	The ball bounced off the wall. 	Bal koatste tegen muur. 
eng	gos	That horse can talk. 	Dat peerd kin proaten. 
eng	gos	Christmas is almost here. 	t Is sikkom kìrst. 
eng	gos	Tom's username is "Tomtoeba13". 	Tom zien gebroekersnoam is "Tomtoeba13". 
eng	gos	I love hedgehogs. 	k Hol van iegelswienen. 
eng	gos	Tom lives in another country. 	Tom woont ien n aander laand. 
eng	gos	Where did you learn Dutch? 	Woar hest Nederlaands leerd? 
eng	gos	Women aren't like that. 	Vraauwlu binnen nait zo. 
eng	gos	Mary is pregnant again. 	Mary is weer swanger. 
eng	gos	Yesterday I started a new book. 	k Bin guster aan n nij bouk begund. 
eng	gos	That was a few years ago. 	Dat was n poar joar leden. 
eng	gos	Why did you remain silent? 	Woarom bleefst stil? 
eng	gos	Erdogan is the President of Turkey. 	Erdogan is presidìnt van Törkaai. 
eng	gos	That book's over there. 	Dat bouk is doar. 
eng	gos	I started a new book yesterday. 	k Bin guster aan n nij bouk begund. 
eng	gos	The traditional Inuit anorak has built-in space for baby at the back. 	Traditsionele Inuit anorak het aan aachterkaant n ienbaauwde roemte veur popke. 
eng	gos	Why did you remain silent? 	Woarom swiegst? 
eng	gos	I'm eating an orange orange. 	k Eet n oraanje appelsien. 
eng	gos	We love you, Tom. 	Wie holden van die, Tom. 
eng	gos	Tom washes his hands. 	Tom wast zien hannen. 
eng	gos	They're yellow. 	Zie binnen geel. 
eng	gos	The cat's name is Tom. 	Noam van kadde is Tom. 
eng	gos	Tom is in the church. 	Tom is ien kìrk. 
